Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have five years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under the special hiring authority for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Chief Psychiatrist is responsible for providing consultation to the Psychiatric staff and physicians in the management of psychiatric emergencies, as well as in determining appropriate disposition of these individuals. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in diagnosing and treating a wide range of psychiatric conditions on an inpatient, outpatient, and emergency basis; and/or I have provided emergency care to mental health patients through ongoing practice in an emergency room setting or an inpatient hospital setting; and/or I have identified common medical emergencies and provided time limited emergency assistance pending the arrival of emergency medical services, such as controlling bleeding or providing CPR. I have experience in providing ongoing care to psychiatric patients with chronic mental illness on an inpatient and outpatient basis; and/or I have provided on-call psychiatric coverage through telephone contact to a local mental health or general hospital system; and/or I have conducted triage admissions to a mental health clinic or general hospital mental health unit. I have performed comprehensive clinical assessments of psychiatric emergencies and appropriate physical, pharmacological, and psychological interventions in psychiatric emergencies, including the use of seclusion and restraints, emergency medication, and behavioral interventions; and/or I have intervened during and treated psychiatric emergencies, such as suicidal or violent behavior, acute psychosis, delirium, alcohol and drug withdrawal syndromes, catatonia, or neuroleptic malignant syndrome; and/or I have experience in dealing with risk management issues, such as documentation of confrontation avoidance techniques and documentation of emergency interventions. None of the above. 7 The Chief Psychiatrist is responsible for developing programs and policies to address the mental health needs of inmates in a wide variety of institutions in which care may be delivered by a number of different types of health care providers in widely differing settings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led the development and delivery of mental health services in an integrated health care delivery system; and/or I have experienced in writing policies and implementing policies, practice guidelines, and other tools in standardizing the delivery of mental health care in ambulatory and inpatient settings; and/or I have experienced in peer review processes, quality assurance processes, and other systems designed to continuously improve the delivery of mental health care; and/or I have experienced in supervising professional and support staff in a health care delivery system; and/or I have addressed quality of health care within the context of a cost-containment or managed care health care delivery system; and/or I have managed multiple projects and prioritized work for subordinate staff within a mental health care system. I have experience as a team leader of a mental health care team in an inpatient and outpatient setting; and/or I have participated in the JCAHO accreditation process or other accrediting process (such as American Correctional Association); and/or I have experience in successfully implementing new policies and procedures in an inpatient or outpatient mental health care setting. I have experience in writing and implementing policies and procedures as they relate to the delivery of mental health services in an inpatient and outpatient setting; and/or I have experience providing clinical and administrative supervision to medical, psychiatric and support staff in a mental health care delivery system; and/or I have participated in peer reviews or other quality assurance processes as they relate to the delivery of mental health care services. None of the above. 8 The Chief Psychiatrist employed by the Federal Bureau of Prisons must possess comprehensive knowledge of psychiatric standards and regulations, particularly as they pertain to nationally recognized clinical practice guidelines (such as the APA clinical practice guidelines), as well as in-depth understanding of the accreditation process of health care and correctional systems. This knowledge is necessary to provide leadership to staff as they provide mental health treatment to patients within a correctional setting.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized treatment guidelines developed by insurance carriers or managed care organizations as the primary source of the standard of care/accepted practice; and/or I have participated in committees or workgroups evaluating, developing, or implementing clinical practice guidelines for a local hospital or clinic practice; and/or I have participated in the implementation of policy and standards to effectively meet accreditation standards of JCAHO, ACA, or other nationally recognized accrediting agency. I have applied psychiatric standards and regulations in multiple health care delivery settings, such as community mental health care, ambulatory care settings, inpatient settings and correctional settings; and/or I have provided active leadership in the development and implementation of policies and procedures for the delivery of mental health services that are in compliance with standards of recognized accrediting agencies, such as JCAHO and ACA, resulting in accreditation by at least one of these agencies; and/or I have participated in National Continuing Education conferences for area of specialty/training; and/or I have utilized knowledge of federal laws and insurance carrier rules and regulations to assure patients receive appropriate medically necessary health care, advocating for patient’s best interest when required. I have experienced in practicing in a hospital which has actively sought and successfully achieved JCAHO accreditation; and/or I have referenced medical textbooks for recurring medical standards determinations; and/or I have used clinical practice guidelines in clinical practice through the use of protocols, algorithms, or other means; and/or I have experience with the use of automated utilization review programs. None of the above. 9 The Chief Psychiatrist must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates, judges, attorneys, and other outside resources in order to provide leadership in the delivery of mental health care to the inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, executive staff of the institution, along with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses or other subordinate health care professionals. I have participated in court testimony and/or reports to the court related to commitment proceedings on individual patients; and/or I have worked in a team process in the delivery of health care to patients in inpatient and outpatient settings; and/or I have managed conflict between staff and patients, and among staff; and/or I have participated in competency evaluations on medical patients refusing necessary medical care. I have chaired a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have negotiated with managers, physicians and insurance carriers, the resolution of complex medical care issues/needs; and/or I have spoken as a keynote speaker at a medical convention or conference on a new medical treatment; and/or I have resolved disagreements between medical professionals on patient care/treatment; and/or I have presented lecture/presentation on the benefit of purchasing new medical apparatus to hospital management/administrators; and/or I have represented the facility as a member of a Community Relations Board on medical relations; and/or I have served as Chief of Staff of a hospital or large multi-specialty clinic; and/or I have prepared reports to the court and testified before the courts on mental health issues pertaining to individual patients or as an recognized expert in psychiatric issues. None of the above. 10 The Chief Psychiatrist must be able to produce written documents to individuals internal and external to the agency as well as the public. He/she is responsible for reviewing medical and psychiatric literature and interpreting it for health care practitioners in a correctional setting. Review and interpretation includes production of comprehensive clinical practice guidelines, teaching health care staff in formal and informal settings, and in providing information to individuals within and outside the agency. He/she is responsible for writing and interpreting health care policies, as well as developing education and guidance for staff in the field on policies relevant to the delivery of mental health care in the correctional setting. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a medical facility; and/or I have prepared technical/complex correspondence regarding patient medical needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional manpower, equipment, medical certification/training, at a medical facility; and/or I have prepared and had published articles in medical journals. I have prepared budget request package for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared response to inquiry received regarding medical decisions made/patient care; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. I have dictated history, physicals, and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies, worker’s compensation cases, Social Security Disability applications; and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. None of the above. 11 The Chief Psychiatrist must be able to perform current and emerging techniques and procedures associated with psychiatric medicine. He/she may have limitations to overcome, such as the availability of medical equipment in a correctional environment; however, he/she must possess the ability to diagnose, determine appropriate treatment, and perform procedures within the facility&rsquo;s scope, or establish procedures and relationships with community consultants to provide the necessary diagnostic and therapeutic services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed comprehensive evaluations of adult outpatients, including history, physical, and neurological examinations, ordering and interpreting laboratory and radiologic studies and develops a treatment plan; and/or I have monitored patients on a regular basis including reassessment of symptoms, response to medications, side effects from medications, therapeutic drug level monitoring where appropriate, monitoring for development of tardive dyskinesia; and/or I have performed risk assessments for thoughts, plans, and/or behaviors related to self-harm or harm towards others; and/or I have prescribed appropriate medications for the following: depression, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety disorders, and other primary psychiatric conditions with and without complicating medical conditions. I have performed Electroconvulsive therapy; and/or I have performed Cognitive Behavioral therapy; and/or I have managed inpatient acute psychiatric conditions, including seclusion and restraint, detoxification, and emergency involuntary medications; and/or I have performed assessments and reports for involuntary commitment of patients; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluations of individuals with history of substance abuse or dependence; and/or I have managed opiate dependent patients with methadone and/or buprenorphine. I have performed Psychodynamic psychotherapy; and/or I have served as a “consultation liaison” in psychiatry; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluation of adult inpatients, including history, physical, and neurological examination, ordering and interpreting of laboratory and radiological studies and develops treatment plan. None of the above. 12 The Chief Psychiatrist must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way, which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff and inmate population in order to maintain operation. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provided feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in a subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization. I have combined a monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by a subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and an existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through a formal mentoring program. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).