Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Applicants MUST meet one of the below listed basic qualification requirements for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. 1. I have a degree from an accredited college or university in accounting and/or auditing. 2. I have a degree from an accredited college or university in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting and/or auditing. (The 24 semester hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.) 3. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, OR an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (This can include up to 6 hours of business law.) 4. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting AND twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (This can include up to 6 hours of business law.) 5. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting AND a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor obtained through a written examination. 6. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting AND completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, (e.g., 15 semester hours) but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement described in Choice 2 above, AND (a) I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, (e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining); AND (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors determined that I have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in Choice 1 above; AND (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 7. I have an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (This can include up to 6 hours of business law.) 8. I have an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor obtained through a written examination. 9. I have an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, (e.g., 15 semester hours) but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement described in Choice 2 above, AND (a) I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, (e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining); AND (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors determined that I have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in Choice 1 above; AND (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 1 Choose one answer from the choices ABOVE that describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I meet the basic qualification requirement described in 1 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 2 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 3 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 4 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 5 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 6 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 7 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 8 above. I meet the basic qualification requirements described in 9 above. My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. Note: All applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement OR a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination OR panel recommendation that includes all the requirements as described under the Qualifications Section in the vacancy announcement. If you fail to provide requested information by the closing date of this announcement, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. 2 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.