Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Developing, forecasting and editing daily employee and/or special event schedules. (2) Proficiently using computers and system databases to enter, retrieve, compile and analyze data. (3) Coordinating and communicating with high profile customers related to tours and assisting with special events. (4) Communicating with a variety of individuals via phone, email and in person to provide expert guidance on a process or system.&nbsp; 2 Please list the scheduling programs you have experience with and level of system access or usage. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required.&nbsp; Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which computer applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft PowerPoint Adobe Acrobat Professional SharePoint None of the above 4 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Answer to this question is required Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g. percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables/informatics Developed spreadsheets Identified missing information None of the above 5 Which operational problems do you have experience resolving? Answer to this question is required Customer accommodation or accessibility concerns Running behind schedule (e.g., interactions with customers taking too long) Equipment malfunctions (e.g., computerized systems, stations) Customers seeking a product or service that is no longer available Customers who request products or services outside of policy None of the above 6 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by explaining policy to customers. I offered customers alternative solutions within policy limitations to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 7 Which activities have you performed to provide service to customers or visitors? Answer to this question is required.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Orienting visitors to the location, facility, or amenities Leading a guided tour Providing basic information about services (e.g., hours of operation, directions to location) Requesting compliance with unpopular or unwelcome policies Providing information about other related attractions or amenities Advising customers or visitors of estimated wait time Assisting customers seeking a specific item or information None of the above 8 Which features of Microsoft Excel have you applied on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required Entered data Formatted cells Assigned formulas Created spreadsheets Inserted tables Inserted graphics Linked multiple spreadsheets None of the above 9 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above. 10 To which types of individuals have you provided customer services (e.g., answering inquiries)? Answer to this question is required High-profile individuals (e.g., members of congress, celebrities) Administrative staff Members of the general public/constituents Shop workers (e.g., electricians, masons, plumbers) Peers/co-workers None of the above 11 Which of the following office management and administrative tasks have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed and used automated systems to organize and keep track of information and work progress. Prioritized urgent administrative tasks. Determined which items to handle independently and which items to refer to upper management. Assembled information to be used for reports and responses to inquiries. Prepared for meetings, travel and conferences. Tracked, monitored and purchased office equipment and inventory to ensure office functionality. Reviewed and checked the accuracy of information. Composed non-technical correspondence. None of the above. 12 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience manipulating data with an automated database systems (e.g., Excel, MS Access, Oracle)? Answer to this question is required I do not have training, education, or experience with automated database systems. I completed training or education related to database systems, but have not used this knowledge in my work. I accessed or reviewed records in database systems. I entered and/or edited records in database systems. I extracted data from database systems by running an existing query. I wrote new queries in database systems. I developed new systems and/or improved the functioning of database systems (e.g., poor table design, incorrectly keyed). 13 Which of the following best describes your experience managing multiple responsibilities, tasks, or projects with competing deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have limited or no experience managing multiple responsibilities or priorities with competing deadlines. I have assisted others in managing multiple priorities but have not been primarily responsible for ensuring timely completion. I have managed several tasks or projects with competing deadlines, with occasional guidance from a supervisor. I have independently managed multiple high-priority tasks or projects with overlapping deadlines, successfully prioritizing and completing all on time with minimal supervision. 14 Which of the following tools or strategies have you used to successfully manage multiple priorities and meet deadlines? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Creating and managing task lists or to-do lists Using project or time management software Setting and adjusting task priorities based on urgency and importance Blocking time on calendars to focus on specific tasks Delegating tasks to team members when appropriate Communicating proactively with supervisors or stakeholders to adjust deadlines or expectations Tracking progress and deadlines using spreadsheets or tracking systems I have not used any specific tools or strategies to manage multiple priorities 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.