Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to use written and spoken English and Chinese to maintain and process library materials.** Applied and demonstrated the ability to use written and spoken English and Chinese to identify and understand bibliographic elements, process library materials in all formats, and access, arrange, shelve, and preserve those materials. Answer to this question is required I have applied and demonstrated proficiency in using written and spoken English and Chinese to identify bibliographic records, process Chinese materials in all formats, and access, arrange, retrieve, shelve, and preserve materials from collections in an academic, library, or archival setting. I have applied and demonstrated proficiency in using written and spoken English and Chinese to identify bibliographic records and to access, arrange, retrieve, and shelve materials from collections in an academic or library setting. I have applied and demonstrated proficiency in using written and spoken English and Chinese to identify bibliographic elements and to retrieve and shelve materials from the collections in an academic or library setting. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of library processes and procedures.** Applied knowledge of library processes and procedures to retrieve materials, process collections, and organize materials, and in doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) retrieved library materials, 2) assisted library patrons in the use of library resources, 3) processed collection materials, 4) prepared materials for binding, boxing or microfilming, and 5) arranged, sorted, shelved and re-shelved materials. Answer to this question is required I have applied knowledge of library processes and procedures by performing ALL of the above tasks in a library setting. I have applied knowledge of library processes and procedures by performing FOUR (4) of the above tasks in a library setting. I have applied knowledge of library processes and procedures by performing at least THREE (3) of the above tasks in a library or an academic setting. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to use information systems, databases and computerized search tools and equipment.** Have used the advanced features and capabilities of computerized search tools, web-based tools and other office automation applications to retrieve, review, search, input and analyze information. This included experience in the following: 1) working with Integrated Library Systems or Library Collections Access Platform; 2) conducting online searches for bibliographic information; 3) creating holdings and item information; 4) editing existing holdings and items for records for materials; 5) utilizing knowledge of standards to locate materials (e.g., MARC, LCCS, AACr2, RDA); and 6) linking barcodes on physical materials to item records to create inventory records for materials. Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL of the above computerized search tools, databases and applications while performing a range of searches of various databases, organized, entered, and retrieved information, used computer applications to carry out varied tasks and determined and verified bibliographic or statistical information. Routinely used THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above-computerized search tools, databases and applications while performing a range of searches of various databases. Organized, entered, and retrieved information. Routinely used TWO (2) of the above-computerized search tools, databases and applications while performing a range of searches of various databases. Organized, entered, and retrieved information None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to maintain materials in a library collection. Performed duties in support of maintenance of materials for a library or archival collection including: 1) performing basic preservation and conservation of materials such as re-housing and labeling, transferring material from off-site storage, replacing worn housings and containers, re-boxing, marking for identification and security, shelving, shelf reading, and collection shifting, 2) identifying errors in labeling or a catalog description, 3) preparing materials for storage, 4) accurately inputting into an automated system inventories and other kinds of data compiled during processing, 5) alerting supervisor to the need for evaluation for special treatment and other considerations, and 6) examining collection materials through proper handling to assess physical condition. Answer to this question is required I have independently demonstrated extensive experience in a range of archival procedures and operations, including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above. I have independently demonstrated extensive experience in a range of archival procedures and operations for FOUR (4) of the above. I have independently demonstrated extensive experience in a range of archival procedures and operations, including THREE (3) of the above None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).