Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Accounting Technicians have frequent contact with vendors, co-workers, subordinates, institution department heads, personnel at other institutions, higher level administration within the Bureau, Department of Justice auditors, inmates, general public, local and, although infrequent, foreign government officials. They provide and exchange information regarding a variety of accounting transactions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have initiated contact and offered explanation for questions regarding travel voucher; and/or I have resolved and explained discrepancy when vendor does not receive payment; and/or I have explained account activity reports to inmates. I have advised supervisor of an issue concerning work; and/or I have explained account information to a department head; and/or I have contacted vendor to request copy of invoice or proof of delivery. I have provided general information to visitor; and/or I have provided project update during department meeting; and/or I have addressed general concerns/complaints from staff and other customers. None of the above. 3 Accounting Technicians must be able to effectively communicate in writing. They may have contact with vendors, inmates, staff, department heads, administrative staff, and others where it is necessary to respond in writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared non-sensitive correspondence in conformance to regulations and format; and/or I have prepared a written lesson plan for financial training sessions; and/or I have participated in a program or operational review and documented specific findings; and/or I have prepared general response to a vendor regarding an accounting procedure for higher level signature. I have, as directed, prepared minutes and notes from internal department staff meetings; and/or I have gathered and prepared responses, for review to inquiry from an inmate's family; and/or I have prepared a written response to an Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have prepared monthly sales reports. I have prepared rough draft for comments in correspondence regarding policy change; and/or I have prepared agendas for budget or financial office meetings; and/or I have composed and sent e-mail correspondence. None of the above. 4 Accounting Technicians must have a knowledge of disbursements and fund accounting methods used in maintaining, balancing, and closing sub-accounts in an accounting system. They must adhere to the standards of the U.S. Treasury Department, the General Accounting Office, Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Justice, and the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured all required external reports were completed by required dates, as directed; and/or I have with assistance, followed existing office procedures when maintaining open accounts payable balances; and/or I have maintained batch records according to established guidelines as directed. I have compiled and examined reports to confirm transactions were accepted in computer system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly. I have adhered to the Prompt Payment Act when submitting payments; and/or I have, as directed in policy, reconciled and balanced a variety of cash, draft, and credit card accounts; and/or I have conducted transactions with other various Federal Government agencies utilizing Treasury's Inter-governmental Payment and Collection System. None of the above. 5 Accounting Technicians must apply a variety of accounting procedures in preparing, processing, and maintaining accounts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have certified payment vouchers for correct data and funding sources; and/or I have prepared billings to public, state, and government agencies; and/or I have conducted research and follow-up on all past due billings and initiated debt collection procedures, when necessary. I have, with assistance, reviewed audit trails and internal controls; and/or I have checked daily accounting reports to ensure transactions were processed; and/or I have, with assistance, researched applicable policies or guidelines when faced with questionable accounting issues. I have analyzed obligation documents to determine proper obligation type; and/or I have ensured adequate funding for all obligations and payments; and/or I have advised management when funding inadequacies are noted. None of the above. 6 Accounting Technicians are responsible for processing accounting documents and maintaining files. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have maintained case files in a law office; and/or I have organized a small office records/filing system; and/or I have sorted and distributed incoming source documents. I have established checklists for monitoring individual files; and/or I have organized, maintained and monitored open accounts payable files; and/or I have processed and filed payment vouchers. I have maintained established files, adding topics/files as needed; and/or I have pulled medical records for patent appointments; and/or I have maintained pending files for various functions. None of the above. 7 Accounting Technicians enter, correct, and retrieve accounting data using the Financial Management Information System (FMIS). They use various office equipment such as the personal computer, typewriter, calculator, fax machines, copy machine, scanner machine and other small equipment. They are required to utilize a variety of automated programs and systems to effectively accomplish assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized agency computer programs; and/or I have used various menus to retrieve accounting documents; and/or I have adjusted accounts maintained in the system. I have used grammar check for documents; and/or I have assisted in setting up an automated filing system for easy access/retrieval of information; and/or I have ordered office supplies for a variety of common office equipment. I have utilized spell checker, macro, and file manager in Word Perfect; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Accounting Technicians have contact with vendors, co-workers, subordinates, institution department heads, personnel at other institutions, higher level administration within the Bureau, Department of Justice auditors, inmates, general public, with local and, although infrequent, foreign government officials. They provide and exchange information regarding a variety of accounting transactions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exchanged information with regulatory personnel to effect financial policy implementation; and/or I have contacted vendors in regards to any billing discrepancies identified prior to payment; and/or I have provided in-house training on accounting procedures to staff; and/or I have contacted staff to explain policy in regards to travel advances and travel settlements. I have assisted in responses to inmate's inquiry regarding his/her account; and/or I have explained account information to a department head; and/or I have contacted vendor to request copy of invoice or proof of delivery. I have responded to questions regarding travel vouchers; and/or I have resolved discrepancies when vendors did not receive payment; and/or I have explained account activity reports to inmates. None of the above. 3 Accounting Technicians must be able to effectively communicate in writing. They may have contact with vendors, inmates, staff, department heads, administrative staff, and others where it is necessary to respond in writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an inmate incident report; and/or I have prepared a written response to an Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have prepared monthly sales reports. I have prepared written correspondence from a vendor questioning an accounting policy for higher-level signature; and/or I have prepared memorandums identifying and recommending procedural changes to improve operations of the department/office; and/or I have prepared monthly status reports with memorandum of explanation. I have prepared a written lesson plan for training sessions; and/or I have participated in a program or operational review and documented specific findings in writing; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings or other gatherings. None of the above. 4 Accounting Technicians must have a knowledge of disbursements and fund accounting methods used in maintaining balancing and closing sub-accounts in an accounting system. They must adhere to the standards of the U.S. Treasury Department, the General Accounting Office, Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Justice, and the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have compiled and examined reports to confirm transactions were accepted in the system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly into the system. I have ensured proper guidelines were followed; and/or I have adhered to the Prompt Payment Act when submitting payments; and/or I have reconciled and balanced a variety of cash, draft, and credit card accounts; and/or I have conducted transactions with other various Federal Government agencies utilizing Treasury's Inter-governmental Payment and Collection System. I have frequently researched regulations, procedures and guidelines and interpreted those for on-the-job use; and/or I have reconciled various account balances to U.S. Treasury records monthly; and/or I have ensured obligation amounts (accounts payable) did not exceed available fund balances; and/or I have adjusted open accounts payable balances as corresponded payments were made; and/or I have referenced Federal Appropriations Law and the U.S. Code for legality of expenditures. None of the above. 5 Accounting Technicians must apply a variety of accounting procedures in preparing, processing, and maintaining accounts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed Standard General Ledger account balances for accuracy; and/or I have prepared transactions for reporting on the Standard Form (SF-224); and/or I have conducted internal audits of department's accounting records; and/or I have determined all applicable Prompt Payment Act provisions were properly invoked. I have certified payment vouchers for correct data and funding sources; and/or I have prepared billings to public, state, and government agencies; and/or I have conducted follow-up on all past due billings and initiated debt collection procedures, when necessary. I have analyzed obligation documents to determine proper obligation type; and/or I have ensured adequate funding for all obligations and payments; and/or I have advised management when funding inadequacies are noted. None of the above. 6 Accounting Technicians are responsible for processing accounting documents and maintaining files. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained established case files, adding topics/files as needed; and/or I have organized a small office records/filing system; and/or I have maintained pending files for various functions; and/or I have sorted and distributed incoming source documents. I have established new record system which enabled co-workers/supervisors to retrieve files easily; and/or I have processed large volumes of transactions, vouchers, and purchase orders; and/or I have established, organized, and maintained concise obligation records in a manner which allowed the information to be easily retrieved; and/or I have maintained controls for all expenditures. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have maintained case files in a law office; and/or I have maintained and monitored open accounts payable files, processed and filed payment vouchers. None of the above. 7 Accounting Technicians enter, correct, and retrieve accounting data using the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) as well as several other on-line systems. They also use various office equipment such as the personal computer, adding machine, and other small equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized agency computer programs; and/or I have used various menus to retrieve accounting documents; and/or I have adjusted accounts maintained in the system. I have maintained an established database to track information; and/or I have prepared and interpreted financial reports for management; and/or I have developed detailed spreadsheets using LOTUS and/or other computer software; and/or I have created data bases for tracking expenditures and allotments. I have utilized spell checker, macro, and file manager in Word Perfect; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).