Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records and monthly reporting of reconciliation reports to a program manager(s) to include funds, grants, gifts, etc.? Answer to this question is required I have experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records and monthly reporting of reconciliation reports to a program manager(s). I have experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records. I have experience with reconciliation. I do not have related experience. 3 Which of the following tasks have you performed to prepare financial reports? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have run financial queries based on a single code parameter I have run financial queries based on multiple code parameters (ie, fund number, department, program code) I have run financial queries based on multiple code parameters given to me by others, such as searching for transactions on a specific fund number and/or department I have run financial queries based on general management requests for information, independently determining the best combination of code parameters None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your experience managing different types of funding sources? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing Federal, Discretionary, Grant, and Gift funding. I have experience managing Federal, Discretionary, and Grant funding. I have experience managing Federal and Discretionary funds. I have experience managing Federal funds. I have no experience with fund management. 5 Which of the following describes your experience in monitoring, troubleshooting and resolving account discrepancies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in resolving account discrepancies. I have resolved discrepancies and/or funds in jeopardy of deficit. I have recommended and implemented changes to improve fund management processes/procedures. I have alerted managers of funds in jeopardy of deficit and/or unresolved discrepancies. I have reconciled accounting system records with cuff records and tracked down data to make necessary corrections or adjustments to ensure accuracy of accounting. I have ensured that expenditures do not exceed available account balances. 6 With which of the following purchasing methods do you have experience? Choose all that apply. Answer to this question is required Purchase Orders Purchase Card Blanket Purchase Orders/Agreements GSA Schedule ordering Cooperative Purchasing Agreements Other None 7 What is your experience in interpreting federal regulations and applying procurement policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience interpreting and applying federal and organizational procurement policies and procedures. I have significant experience interpreting and applying federal and organizational procurement policies and procedures. I have moderate experience interpreting and applying federal and organizational procurement policies and procedures. I have no experience interpreting and applying federal and organizational procurement policies and procedures. 8 Which of the following reflect your experience providing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (ie, statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement. I have trained and coached other staff on administrative functions such as procurement. I have established and maintained controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have NOT performed these job functions. 9 Which of the following tasks pertaining to travel policy compliance have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Field expenses review. International itineraries review. Expense documentation review. Senior executive travel review. Justifying exceptions to policy. Coaching other staff on navigation and usage of online travel management tools. Researching organizational travel policy options. Foreign currency conversions for expense calculations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following responses reflects your experience in performing personnel activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in initiating requests for personnel actions. I have assisted in tracking requests for personnel actions. I have entered requests for personnel actions in an automated HR system such as ERP or PeopleSoft. I have attended courses in human resources management. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 11 Do you have experience in providing administrative support to senior management, departmental staff and/or program managers to include (but is not limited to) time keeping, scheduling meetings, property management, training, organization, record keeping, and HR responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following statements describes your communication skills? Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with staff within the organization. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. . I have experience justifying, persuading, negotiating, or resolving matters involving significant program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy, practice or procedure. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the Above Apply. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.