Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience administering or managing an HR accountability program for an organization? Answer to this question is required I have experience administering an HR accountability program as a Human Resources Specialist that includes responsibility for conducting audits of assigned HR programs. I have experience managing an HR accountability program that includes providing administrative and technical supervision to a staff, establishing accountability priorities and objectives, and setting long term goals. My experience also includes serving as the principal advisor to the HR Director on HR accountability. I do not have experience administering an HR accountability program, but I have knowledge of HR accountability practices via training or formal courses. I have experience administering an HR accountability program that includes providing expert advice to others on various HR accountability requirements as a senior HR Specialist. My experience also includes preparing HR accountability reports for submission to appropriate governing bodies. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience identifying or implementing accountability activities for an organization? Answer to this question is required I have experience implementing accountability activities as a senior HR Specialist with responsibility for serving as a lead on audit teams for a specific HR program, i.e. Talent Management. This experience includes writing audit reports independently. I do not have experience identifying or implementing accountability activities for an organization. I have experience leading or overseeing identification of appropriate accountability activities based on results from prior audits and/or established organizational goals. This experience includes collaborating with major stakeholders to obtain buy-in for implementing activities such as internal self-assessments, training for managers and HR Specialists, and development of standard operating procedures, job aids, or annual accountability plans. I have experience serving as a member of an audit team. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in implementing workforce planning activities? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing workforce planning activities for an organization. This responsibility includes providing administrative and technical supervision to a staff of HR Specialists responsible for providing advice and guidance to managers on workforce planning. My experience includes overseeing the development of appropriate training for managers on workforce planning. My experience also includes establishing goals and objectives related to workforce planning and communicating those goals throughout the organization in order to obtain buy-in from major stakeholders. As a senior HR Specialist, I have experience advising managers on workforce planning principles and activities. I do not have experience advising or training managers on workforce planning; however, I am familiar with workforce planning principles via training or formal course work. I do not have experience advising or training managers on workforce planning. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience of a succession planning and management system? Answer to this question is required I have experience administering one or more succession management programs as a senior Specialist. This experience includes overseeing curriculum development, competition and selection procedures, marketing, and evaluation of the programs. I can provide examples upon request. I have experience overseeing all succession planning and management activities for an organization. This experience includes accountability for program success, providing administrative and technical supervision to staff responsible for implementing succession planning activities, i.e., leadership development programs, mentoring programs and use of technology to enhance knowledge management while promoting equity and diversity initiatives while complying with established guidelines. I have experience that includes implementing specific phases of established succession planning activities for one or two critical occupations. I do not have any experience with succession planning practices. 6 Which of the following statements describes your experience identifying and analyzing Human Resources (HR) issues; making logical decisions and providing solutions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified and analyzed problems to distinguish between relevant and irrelevant information in order to make rational decisions . I have developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings or meeting of senior management officials regarding HR issues. I have developed HR policies, regulations, procedures and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization's goals and objectives. I have interpreted and applied statues and regulations to resolve an HR problem or issue. I have explored and implemented automated solutions to HR organizational problems. I have prepared and presented HR analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. I have used qualitative data and analytical tools in making decisions concerning HR issues. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations to management officials within organization. I have been recognized through performance appraisals and/or awards for my work in identifying and analyzing HR problems, making logical decisions and providing solutions. None of the above 7 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of HR theories, concepts, laws, regulations, and principles which provided you the experience to identify, evaluate, and recommend solutions to complex and controversial HR issues? Answer to this question is required I have resolved a variety of HR problems and issues pertaining to routine matters on a day-to-day basis. I have resolved a variety of complex HR problems and issues pertaining to sensitive top level management concerns. I have isolated and defined critical HR issues and provided precedent setting alternative solutions that impacted a Agency/Department. None of the above 8 Which of the following statements describes your interpersonal communication skills/experiences that you have performed as a regular part of your human resources (HR)position? Answer to this question is required I have explained and provided guidance regarding controversial/complex HR situations I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups on HR programs and issues. I have facilitated the resolution of controversial/complex HR problems I have developed and enhanced alliances with internal and external HR groups and individuals I have represented and spoke on behalf of my HR office presenting its work to individuals and groups within and outside the office I have communicated with managers and other Human Resources professionals to provide guidance and assistance in resolving difficult human resources issues. I have ensured that HR reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have communicated with senior executives, managers, and individuals from the Federal, public, and private sectors to influence, recommend, and/or gain acceptance of complex and sensitive HR policies and issues. None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience developing HR policies and standard operating procedures? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing HR policies and/or standard operating procedures for an organization with approximately 20-30 different occupations that are covered by one or two personnel/pay systems. I can provide examples upon request. I have experience as the primary author for developing policy and standard operating procedures for an organization with diverse occupations and at least three different personnel/pay systems. I can provide examples upon request. I have experience leading or overseeing the development of HR policies and standard operating procedures for an organization with diverse occupations and multiple personnel/pay systems. This experience includes providing administrative and technical supervision to a staff of HR Specialists responsible for developing and updating policy and guidance to reflect best practices based on new regulations. My experience also includes monitoring proposed legislation to assess the potential impact on existing policy and guidance. I can provide examples upon request. I do not have experience developing HR policies or standard operating procedures. 10 Do you have experience creating a written action plan for implementation of new human resources policies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Select the statement that best describes your experience developing highly complex new or revised work methods, approaches, or procedures with organization-wide impct that necessitated the development of innovative approaches to significantly enhance the quality of human resources services. Answer to this question is required Managed and led the development of a major, complex HR process, program or system for an organization or small agency that involved innovation and significantly enhance the quality of the HR services. Managed and led the development of an HR process or program for an organization that involved innovative approaches and increased the quality of HR services. Led the development of a new or revised HR work method, approach or procedure that enhanced HR services to an organizational entity. None of the above 12 Select all of the statements that best describe your experience in providing HR program leadership, management, and coordination: Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing policies, standards and procedures. I have experience coordinating budget development, monitoring and reporting. I have experience analyzing and evaluating data to identify trends, characteristics and deficiencies and making recommendations based on my analysis I have experience providing advice to managers to resolve recurring or complex issues. I have experience training others in all aspects of the program I have experience in analyzing and resolving conflicts in program objectives and/or critical work issues in controversial situations requiring complex negotiations. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting training needs assessments? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge conducting a training needs assessment that I acquired via training or formal course work. As a senior Specialist, I have experience conducting training needs assessments independently. My experience includes developing the assessment tool, distributing the assessment, and evaluating results. I have experience establishing objectives and priorities for conducting training needs assessments. This experience includes providing administrative and technical supervision to Specialists responsible for implementing annual assessments. My experience also includes reviewing the results of assessments and proactively coordinating with senior leaders to solicit the resources needed to implement training and development activities. I do not have any experience conducting training needs assessments. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience implementing training activities to close skill gaps? Answer to this question is required As part of a large project, I have experience identifying vendors to develop training activities to close skill gaps for specific occupations. I have experience reviewing the results of training needs assessments and working directly with managers to develop appropriate activities to close skill gaps. I have experience overseeing an organization-wide effort to close skill gaps within a defined timeframe and tracking progress via a dashboard. This experience also includes measuring impact on employee and organizational performance, implementing program evaluation techniques to assess return on investment, and leveraging internal and external resources to accomplish training activities. I do not have experience developing training activities to close skill gaps. 15 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience providing on-the-job training and developmental assignments to staff members? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your experience supervising a team of HR professionals for an organization? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising employees within a division by providing technical and administrative guidance, planning work, establishing priorities, and evaluating performance. I have experience planning, directing and managing the personnel and activities of a Unit/Branch/Organization by determining organizational goals, overseeing long-term complex projects, evaluating programs, providing management advisory services and approving the expenditure of funds I do not have experience supervising employees. I have experience serving as a team lead for a group or project by providing instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters. 17 Which of the following describes your supervising experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Recruitment/hiring. Discipline. Awards. Scheduling. Staffing. Conflict resolution. Coaching and or counseling. Employee relations. Managing diversity. Team, project, and/or task leader. None of the above. 18 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience leading a staff of human resources personnel through significant organizational change to optimize the use of personnel resources and talent? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.