Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position at the journeyman level. Failure to specifically identify skills equivalent to a journeyman may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. 2 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must provide proof of a current State of Minnesota Department of Health and Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Class C Water Treatment Certification or meet the requirements for reciprocity under part 9400.1350. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor requirement for this position. NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume and upload and attach a copy of their certification to be found qualified . No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Water Treatment Plant Foremen must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training for new workers; and/or I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices and intermediate workers; and/or I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. I have led co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have helped train new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. None of the above. 4 Water Treatment Plant Formen must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have indicated interest in working in a correctional institution during an interview; and/or I have displayed no negative information concerning aptitude for work with prisoners. I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 5 Water Treatment Plant Foremen must have the ability to assemble, install and repair components, assemblies and systems of a water treatment plant. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed subordinates how to repair meters, pumps and gauges in a filtration plant; and/or I have detailed knowledge of an entire system and the working relationships of its components in order to make repairs; and/or I have assembled and installed pumps and other major items; and/or I have diagnosed and overhauled valves, pumps, conveyors and other equipment related to water treatment plant operations. I have completed a trade school program in water treatment procedures; and/or I have dissembled, cleaned, adjusted and replaced defective parts in motors, pumps and other elements on one’s own; and/or I have performed routine maintenance; and/or I have painted water pumping equipment and pipes; and/or I have assisted higher graded operators in performing operational repairs. I have performed chemical and other tests related to the operation of a Water Treatment Plant; and/or I have worked on a wide range of water treatment related equipment with assistance on only a few types of equipment when encountering unusual problems; and/or I have adjusted packing glands and repacked valves. None of the above. 6 Water Treatment Plant Foremen must have the ability to operate such equipment as pumps, conveyors, feeders, meters and other equipment related to water treatment operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in most phases of water treatment operations; and/or I have performed non filtration processes to change taste, odor or chemical content; and/or I have added silicates and chemical agents, such as chlorine and fluoride, into the water; and/or I have made checks on more complicated equipment such as chemical feeders, auxiliary generators, etc. I have monitored pumping equipment and gauges according to prescribed schedules; and/or I have performed routine operator maintenance; and/or I have added chemicals to soften water. I am considered an expert in the field; and/or I have worked in an extensive water treatment operation such as a large city, municipality or industrial plant; and/or I have extensive practical experience in all phases of water treatment operations; and/or I have operated settling tanks, filter beds, hydrochlorinators or similar types of equipment. None of the above. 7 Water Treatment Plant Foremen must be knowledgeable of new and up-to-date practices in the water treatment field, and have the ability to use trade theory in doing more demanding or precise tasks or in designing new ways to do tasks that cannot be done by equipment at hand or readily available. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made adjustments to valves and pumps to control and aerate water flow; and/or I have regulated proper amount of water through filtration systems; and/or I have recorded readings and consolidated data into reports. I have diagnosed complex repair and maintenance problems which couldn’t be solved by lower graded workers; and/or I have worked from diagrams and schematics; and/or I have worked as a shift engineer in a city water system. I have diagnosed installation and repair problems; and/or I have performed jobs common to a water treatment system; and/or I have maintained quality of potable water by the adjustment of chemical treatment. None of the above. 8 Water Treatment Plant Foremen must have the ability to use measuring instruments connected with performing chemical and other tests relating to water treatment operations. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have measured and introduced chemicals and compounds into water system; and/or I have performed microbiological tests such as inoculations and incubation of outgoing water samples to verify the elimination of treated microorganisms; and/or I have performed water treatment tests and measurements that required a working knowledge of various microbiological organisms. I have used ethylometers and pH meters to take measurements; and/or I have recorded water treatments according to established methods and regulations; and/or I have performed tests on water supply to ensure conformance with all EPA standards for a potable water supply. I have collected water samples; and/or I have conducted and recorded basic water sampling tests such as fluoride or chloride content; and/or I have used basic equipment such as color wheels and pH level detection kits and meters. None of the above. 9 Water Treatment Plant Foremen must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted tests and measurements within prescribed state and federal standards; and/or I have worked under general instruction from supervisor; and/or I have added chemical agents and compounds to maintain water quality in accordance with established methods and procedures. I have checked equipment operations; and/or I have maintained proper water levels in storage tanks; and/or I have performed basic tests and measurements in accordance with instructions in printed procedural pamphlets. I have been responsible for tests and measurements in accordance with formulas established by state and federal agencies; and/or I have instructed new employees how to read gauges, meters and recording and control devices; and/or I have expert knowledge on the individual and combined effects of chemicals and compounds such as lime, ash, fluorides and polyphosphates used in filtration procedures. None of the above. 10 Water Treatment Plant Foremen must maintain a safe work environment as well as appropriate speed and quality of work levels, safety training, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured in-line water pressure didn’t exceed safety limits at terminal points in the systems; and/or I have used moderate physical effort to turn valves and controls; and/or I have worked outside for short periods of time subject to adverse weather conditions. I have worked as an alternate safety manager in a water treatment plant; and/or I have used proper safety equipment when working around hazardous chemicals; and/or I have lifted and carried heavy equipment. I have taught proper procedures to new employees on the use of chemicals during the water treatment process; and/or I have taught safety procedures to subordinates; and/or I have performed maintenance on valves and pumps in confined areas of the plant. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).