Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 [52909] To qualify at the GS-14 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service. Non-government experience should be of similar complexity. I have one year of specialized leading and supervising others; conducting complex and sensitive investigations with tact and discretion, securing facts and developing evidence; maintaining liasion with other law enforcement bodies; conducting investigative interviews, record searches, and obtaining sworn statements; preparing written reports of investigations and summaries. I do not possess the experience described above. 2 Please indicate which basic criminal investigator training program you have completed successfully. Answer to this question is required I have completed basic criminal investigator training through either the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, FBI Academy, DEA Academy, AFOSI Academy, NIS/NCIS Academy, Postal Inspection Service, or the Army Criminal Investigations course. I have completed basic criminal investigator training program through another federal agency, the state, city, or private sector organization. I have not completed a basic criminal investigator training program. 3 [53436] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to prepare written reports of investigative findings, presentations, and briefings in a clear, concise and well organized manner? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 4 [55064] Select one answer choice that best describes your highest skill in contract oversight. Answer to this question is required I have served as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR) as a regular part of a job which includes monitoring all aspects of the day-to-day administration of a contract. I have performed this function independently. I have performed some of the tasks of a COR on the job. My work on these tasks was monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures I have had education or training in COR duties, but have not yet performed these duties on the job. I have no education, training or experience related to performing contract oversight. 5 [13255] Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of knowledge of legal, government, and jurisprudence (i.e. knowledge of applicable Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders governing the conduct of criminal investigations). Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have working knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have limited knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have received training in the federal rules of criminal procedures, but have not conducted investigations. I do not possess the experience described above. 6 [53441] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to work in a team environment and maintain an effective working relationship with others? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 7 [53042] Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill demonstrating external awareness (i.e. identifying and understanding economic, political, and social trends that affect the organizations) in conducting investigations: Answer to this question is required I have experience developing relationships with internal/external groups to complete work assignments. I have experience researching and analyzing trends affecting public sector organizations, but have not developed relationships with internal/external groups. I have completed coursework in Public Policy, Criminal Justice, Law or Public Administration, but have not researched/analyze trends affecting public sector organizations. I have experience gathering information pertaining to the Federal Government but have not completed coursework in Public Policy, Law, Criminal Justice, or Public Administration. I do not possess the experience/training described above. 8 [52912] Select the one answer choice that best describes your ability to lead a diverse workforce. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a first-line supervisor, with responsibility for providing guidance and direction to subordinates. I have experience as a team leader, with responsibility for providing technical guidance and direction to subordinates. I have limited experience in providing technical guidance and direction to subordinates. I have no experience leading a diverse workforce. 9 [16672] An applicant may not have reached his/her 37th birthday at the time of initial appointment to a Federal Law Enforcement covered position within the US Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General; select the answer choice that describes your age: Answer to this question is required I have not yet reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to 30 days from the closing date of this announcement. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have previous service credible under Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) law enforcement provisions sufficient to enable me to retire at age 57 with 20 years of creditable service. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position. I am not eligible to apply for this position. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position; however, I am a preference eligible and can apply for this position. 10 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 11 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).