Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 [52621] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience applying the acquisition process. This experience is well described in my resume. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [9019] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of and experience with the issues, functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry. Answer to this question is required I have not had the education, training, or experience in the issues functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry. I have had education or training in the issues, functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry, and related agencies and representative of private industries and organizations but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise in and assistance with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry, and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 3 [29431] Select the statement that best describes your level of knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs, including the applicable laws and regulations, policies, operation and/or technical demands, program interrelationships, program precedents, and customer needs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have some general knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs. I have had education or training related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have had direct experience working with maritime industry policies and programs. I work with maritime industry policies and programs as a routine part of my job. 4 [35410] Do you have any experience of either the U.S.-flag cargo preference laws for government cargo or the coastwise laws of the United States that require the use of U.S.-flag vessels between ports? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [49979] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience related to setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo. I have had education, training, or experience related to setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo, but have not yet used it on the job. I have had direct experience setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have had direct experience working with setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I work directly with setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. 6 [56806] Which of the following describes your experience administering, working with or performing tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions on ocean carrier industry topics, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry. I have trained or instructed others on these tasks or functions. 7 [48911] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience working with cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. Your experience must be supported in your resume. Answer to this question is required In addition to having analyzed and applied the laws, I have experience developing solutions to policy problems involving a number of cargo preference specialty areas. Based on my experience applying the cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations, I have written regulations that had broad program impact or advanced an element of the cargo preference program. Using my experience of cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations, I have guided officials in the interpretation and implementation of cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have experience analyzing and applying cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have experience reviewing cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have no experience working with cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. 8 [48912] Select the statement that best describes your experience of programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program. I have education or training in programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program but have not yet performed it on a job. I have performed tasks related to programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed tasks related to programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program on a regular and recurring basis, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program tasks as a major part of my job and I have trained others in performing this task or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 [46907] Select the statement that best describes your experience with the issues, functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry. Answer to this question is required I have not had the education, training, or experience in the issues functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry. I have had education or training in the issues, functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry, and related agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise in and assistance with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry, and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 10 [1931] Select the statement(s) that describe written communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Wrote technical specifications or contract requirements clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively Drafted special contract requirements for others Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations in written format Prepared briefing materials on controversial issues Wrote guidance that summarized and explained rules, regulation, policies and procedures Wrote comprehensive briefings for managers or executives outside of my organization None of the above 11 [4506] Select the response(s) that describe the verbal communications skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external customers on a daily basis. I have experience in describing rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have facilitated workshops using formal facilitation methods. I have conducted occupational and other interviews to develop technical or programmatic knowledge. I have made presentations to varied audiences. I have provided classroom training. I have briefed managers and executives outside my organization. I have successfully negotiated with customers, contractors and vendors to resolve problems. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have acted as a meeting organizer and facilitator. I have successfully built consensus among individuals with disparate views and often in the face of high-level controversy, disagreement, and conflicting interest. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have clearly communicated the revisions needed on plans, specifications and estimates. None of the above Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [56003] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 3 [9019] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of and experience with the issues, functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry. Answer to this question is required I have not had the education, training, or experience in the issues functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry. I have had education or training in the issues, functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry, and related agencies and representative of private industries and organizations but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise in and assistance with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry, and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 4 [29431] Select the statement that best describes your level of knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs, including the applicable laws and regulations, policies, operation and/or technical demands, program interrelationships, program precedents, and customer needs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have some general knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs. I have had education or training related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have had direct experience working with maritime industry policies and programs. I work with maritime industry policies and programs as a routine part of my job. 5 [35410] Do you have any experience of either the U.S.-flag cargo preference laws for government cargo or the coastwise laws of the United States that require the use of U.S.-flag vessels between ports? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [49979] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience related to setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo. I have had education, training, or experience related to setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo, but have not yet used it on the job. I have had direct experience setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have had direct experience working with setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I work directly with setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. 7 [56806] Which of the following describes your experience administering, working with or performing tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions on ocean carrier industry topics, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry. I have trained or instructed others on these tasks or functions. 8 [65308] Which of the following describes your experience administering, working with or performing tasks or functions on international trade activities? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions within the international trade industry. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions on international industry topics, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the international trade industry as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the international trade industry as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions in the international trade industry as a regular part of a job. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry. I have trained or instructed others on these tasks or functions. 9 [48911] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience working with cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. Your experience must be supported in your resume. Answer to this question is required In addition to having analyzed and applied the laws, I have experience developing solutions to policy problems involving a number of cargo preference specialty areas. Based on my experience applying the cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations, I have written regulations that had broad program impact or advanced an element of the cargo preference program. Using my experience of cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations, I have guided officials in the interpretation and implementation of cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have experience analyzing and applying cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have experience reviewing cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have no experience working with cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. 10 [48912] Select the statement that best describes your experience of programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program. I have education or training in programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program but have not yet performed it on a job. I have performed tasks related to programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed tasks related to programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program on a regular and recurring basis, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program tasks as a major part of my job and I have trained others in performing this task or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 [1931] Select the statement(s) that describe written communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Wrote technical specifications or contract requirements clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively Drafted special contract requirements for others Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations in written format Prepared briefing materials on controversial issues Wrote guidance that summarized and explained rules, regulation, policies and procedures Wrote comprehensive briefings for managers or executives outside of my organization None of the above 12 [4506] Select the response(s) that describe the verbal communications skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external customers on a daily basis. I have experience in describing rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have facilitated workshops using formal facilitation methods. I have conducted occupational and other interviews to develop technical or programmatic knowledge. I have made presentations to varied audiences. I have provided classroom training. I have briefed managers and executives outside my organization. I have successfully negotiated with customers, contractors and vendors to resolve problems. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have acted as a meeting organizer and facilitator. I have successfully built consensus among individuals with disparate views and often in the face of high-level controversy, disagreement, and conflicting interest. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have clearly communicated the revisions needed on plans, specifications and estimates. None of the above 13 [46907] Select the statement that best describes your experience with the issues, functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry. Answer to this question is required I have not had the education, training, or experience in the issues functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry. I have had education or training in the issues, functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry, and related agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise in and assistance with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry, and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [9019] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of and experience with the issues, functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry. Answer to this question is required I have not had the education, training, or experience in the issues functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry. I have had education or training in the issues, functions, and programs regarding the marine shipping industry, and related agencies and representative of private industries and organizations but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise in and assistance with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the marine shipping industry, and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 3 [29431] Select the statement that best describes your level of knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs, including the applicable laws and regulations, policies, operation and/or technical demands, program interrelationships, program precedents, and customer needs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have some general knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs. I have had education or training related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have had direct experience working with maritime industry policies and programs. I work with maritime industry policies and programs as a routine part of my job. 4 [35410] Do you have any experience of either the U.S.-flag cargo preference laws for government cargo or the coastwise laws of the United States that require the use of U.S.-flag vessels between ports? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [49979] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience related to setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo. I have had education, training, or experience related to setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo, but have not yet used it on the job. I have had direct experience setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have had direct experience working with setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I work directly with setting or evaluating rates for maritime industry shipping of containerized and bulk cargo as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. 6 [56806] Which of the following describes your experience administering, working with or performing tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions on ocean carrier industry topics, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry as a regular part of a job. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry. I have trained or instructed others on these tasks or functions. 7 [65308] Which of the following describes your experience administering, working with or performing tasks or functions on international trade activities? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions within the international trade industry. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions on international industry topics, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the international trade industry as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions within the international trade industry as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed tasks or functions in the international trade industry as a regular part of a job. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing tasks or functions in the ocean carrier industry. I have trained or instructed others on these tasks or functions. 8 [48911] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience working with cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. Your experience must be supported in your resume. Answer to this question is required In addition to having analyzed and applied the laws, I have experience developing solutions to policy problems involving a number of cargo preference specialty areas. Based on my experience applying the cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations, I have written regulations that had broad program impact or advanced an element of the cargo preference program. Using my experience of cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations, I have guided officials in the interpretation and implementation of cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have experience analyzing and applying cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have experience reviewing cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. I have no experience working with cargo preference laws and the related maritime industry regulations. 9 [48912] Select the statement that best describes your experience of programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program. I have education or training in programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program but have not yet performed it on a job. I have performed tasks related to programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed tasks related to programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program on a regular and recurring basis, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed programs that generate cargo that comes under the cargo preference program tasks as a major part of my job and I have trained others in performing this task or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 [46907] Select the statement that best describes your experience with the issues, functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry. Answer to this question is required I have not had the education, training, or experience in the issues functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry. I have had education or training in the issues, functions, and programs regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry, and related agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations as a regular part of a job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise in and assistance with the issues, functions, and programs, regarding the international and domestic commercial maritime transportation industry, and its relationship with other agencies and representatives of private industries and organizations. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 11 [1931] Select the statement(s) that describe written communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Wrote technical specifications or contract requirements clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively Drafted special contract requirements for others Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations in written format Prepared briefing materials on controversial issues Wrote guidance that summarized and explained rules, regulation, policies and procedures Wrote comprehensive briefings for managers or executives outside of my organization None of the above 12 [4506] Select the response(s) that describe the verbal communications skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external customers on a daily basis. I have experience in describing rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have facilitated workshops using formal facilitation methods. I have conducted occupational and other interviews to develop technical or programmatic knowledge. I have made presentations to varied audiences. I have provided classroom training. I have briefed managers and executives outside my organization. I have successfully negotiated with customers, contractors and vendors to resolve problems. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have acted as a meeting organizer and facilitator. I have successfully built consensus among individuals with disparate views and often in the face of high-level controversy, disagreement, and conflicting interest. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have clearly communicated the revisions needed on plans, specifications and estimates. None of the above 13 Select the statement that best describes your experience communicating with stakeholders to create and maintain effective working relationships as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education or training in communicating with stakeholders to create and maintain effective working relationships. I have had training or education in communicating with stakeholders to create and maintain effective working relationships, but have not performed it on the job. I have communicated with stakeholders to create and maintain effective working relationships, but not as a regular and recurring part of a job. I have communicated with stakeholders to create and maintain effective working relationships as a regular and recurring part of a job. I have communicated with stakeholders to create and maintain effective working relationships, on a regular and recurring basis in my position, and I have been recognized by others for my performance of this activity. 14 [68492] Select the statement that best describes the extent of your ability to build relationships with a broad variety of private-sector companies, trade and transportation organizations, government agencies or professional groups. Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge and experience in providing oversight related to building relationships with a broad variety of private-sector companies, trade and transportation organizations, government agencies, or professional groups. I have considerable knowledge and in building relationships with a broad variety of private-sector companies, trade and transportation organizations, government agencies, or professional groups. I have limited knowledge and experience in building relationships with a broad variety of private-sector companies, trade and transportation organizations, government agencies, or professional groups. I do not have the experience described above. 15 [8825] Select the response(s) that describe how you gained experience and knowledge in the maritime and intermodal transportation industry. Answer to this question is required Senior management experience in the shoreside transportation/intermodal industry. Mid-level management experience in the shoreside transportation/intermodal industry. Management experience in the shoreside transportation/intermodal industry. Management administrative experience in a maritime-oriented educational institution. Experience in a Federal agency dealing with maritime industry issues. None of the above. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 14 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 14.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 14.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 14.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).