Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Health Information Technician will have daily contact with professional medical and non-medical staff, support service personnel, and patients. He/she communicates patient history information contained within the medical record, as required. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed staff on locating basic patient information in the health record; and/or I have instructed staff on gathering/maintaining proper documentation; and/or I have responded to requests for information/assistance from patients/inmates. I have communicated with professional staff to coordinate patient care; and/or I have made oral presentations to individuals outside the organization; and/or I have conducted medical records training sessions for the general public. I have made oral presentations to small groups within Health Services; and/or I have trained new employees on departmental procedures; and/or I have consulted with medical staff for clarification of medical information. None of the above. 3 The Health Information Technician respond to requests from outside sources requesting release of Bureau of Prison (BOP) medical information. He/she is responsible for releasing information in compliance with the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided training to work unit staff regarding release of information; and/or I have reviewed copies of records for release of information request; and/or I have determined proper handling of requests for information based on requestor. I have reviewed and discussed how to process a non-routine request for release of information; and/or I have delivered prepared copies of requested information to requestor; and/or I have prepared a report regarding volume of requests. I have made determinations regarding release of information based on federal, state and local laws; and/or I have maintained confidentiality of medical records and information; and/or I have directed others in the proper release of information; and/or I have worked with regional and Central Office staff to coordinate the release of non-routine information. None of the above. 4 The Health Information Technician must possess knowledge and skills to operate word processing equipment and use a personal computer to perform SENTRY, word processing, electronic health record and other automated administrative functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have accessed a database to collect and retrieve data; and/or I have developed documents which automated and streamlined an administrative process; and/or I have formulated slide show presentations and reports containing graphics. I have entered/retrieved information from non-routine applications; and/or I have exported reports to different formats (i.e., Microsoft Word to pdf, etc.) and manipulated data; and/or I have accessed on-line agency information resources. I have entered/retrieved data from database; and/or I have utilized software with direction; and/or I have retrieved information under direction. None of the above. 5 The Health Information Technician must possess knowledge of current medical record science, techniques, and procedures. This includes knowledge of specialized medical terminology, anatomy, and physiology, and disease processes of each anatomical system. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coded routine records; and/or I have prepared medical forms; and/or I have scheduled patient appointments using basic medical terminology. I have coded complicated medical records under direction; and/or I have extracted information from medical records for reports; and/or I have organized and compiled medical information prior to a patient’s appointment. I have performed comprehensive reviews/audits of medical records; and/or I have independently coded complicated medical records; and/or I have identified trends or specific clinical findings based on reviews. None of the above. 6 The Health Information Technician analyze the contents of complex medical records for compliance with Bureau of Prison (BOP) and accreditation requirements. He/she notes deficiencies/inconsistencies and implements corrective action. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented the department as a member of a quality improvement committee; and/or I have provided evidence that various department functions are in compliance with regulations; and/or I have participated in a program review and provided corrective action for compliance. I have performed audits of medical records; and/or I have identified problems with documentation; and/or I have assisted with performance of quality improvement study. I have performed focused reviews of identified problems; and/or I have prepared summary report of medical record audits; and/or I have instructed staff in medical record maintenance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).