Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best represents your highest level of education and experience? Answer to this question is required I have a high school diploma and two (2) years of administrative or clerical experience in an office environment. I have a high school diploma and at least three (3) years of administrative or clerical experience in an office environment. I have an Associate's degree. I have an Associate's degree and at least one (1) year of administrative or clerical experience in an office environment. I have a Bachelor's degree or higher. None of the above. 2 Are you able to lift 55 pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have a current and valid driver's license. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Have you had any experience performing inventory control of supplies, equipment or other office materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the response that most accurately reflects your experience in managing multiple projects. Answer to this question is required I have set priorities and made adjustments to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on single (and sequential) projects under my control. I have set priorities and made adjustments to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on multiple (and simultaneous) projects under my control. I have set priorities and made adjustments for other employees (e.g., on teams I have led, units I have formally managed, etc.) to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on multiple (and simultaneous) projects under my responsibility. None of the above 6 Which software programs do you have experience using in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft PowerPoint Outlook Case Management Systems None of the above View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).