Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead, supervise, and manage interior design and technical staff.** Demonstrated experience leading, supervising and managing interior design and technical staff and performing the following tasks: 1) hiring staff, 2) addressing performance and disciplinary issues, and conducting performance evaluations, 3) leading multidisciplinary teams responsible for design and project execution, 4) supporting staff development across space planning, design, and project delivery, 5) articulating workload management, coaching, quality control, and team development, 6) showing understanding of creative-professional team dynamics in a regulated setting, 7) promoting a culture of collaboration, customer service, and accountability, and 8) setting policies and standards related to design and the execution of project work. Answer to this question is required Has AT LEAST THREE (3) years supervising a multidisciplinary interior design and technical team, including other supervisors and team leads and performed ALL of the above for an interior design and technical staff or equivalent. Has AT LEAST THREE (3) years supervising a multidisciplinary interior design and technical team, including other supervisors and team leads and performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above for an interior design and technical staff or equivalent. Has AT LEAST ONE (1) year supervising a multidisciplinary interior design and technical team, and performed SIX (6) of the above for an interior design and technical staff or equivalent. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to coordinate facility design and renovation program and project management.** Led interior design and technical teams in the planning, managing, coordinating and implementing of work on multiple concurrent facility interior planning, design and construction related projects, performing the following: 1) meeting with stakeholders to identify project goals, resources, applicable policies, challenges, and opportunities, 2) defining project deliverables and evaluating the project&rsquo;s impact on other agency-or organization-wide activities, 3) developing and following strategy for balancing time, cost, scope, and staff availability, 4) using metrics, monitoring, and reporting practices to measure progress, 5) communicating status and task assignments with design staff and stakeholders using tools (e.g., MS Teams, SharePoint, Virtual Whiteboards), and 6) using tools to track and report progress on concurrent projects and activities (e.g., MS Project, Smartsheet, or dashboards). Answer to this question is required Has AT LEAST FIVE (5) years as a department lead or equivalent overseeing a complex interior renovation project portfolio across multiple sites or programs with overlapping timelines and has executed ALL the tasks above. Has THREE (3) or MORE years as a program manager or equivalent overseeing a complex interior renovation project portfolio across multiple sites or programs with overlapping timelines and has executed FOUR or FIVE of the above tasks including 5) and 6). Has THREE (3) or MORE years program manager or equivalent overseeing an interior renovation project portfolio across multiple sites or programs with overlapping timelines and has executed THREE (3) of the above tasks including 5) and 6). None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of design and renovation service work in historic and occupied facilities.** Demonstrated knowledge of design and renovation service work in historic and occupied facilities through the following:&nbsp; 1) interpreting and and critiquing technical design materials such as design and construction drawings, space studies, construction specifications, and shop drawings, 2) understanding of space functionality, code compliance, ADA/ABAAS &amp; NFPA 101, and aesthetic considerations, 3) logistically working in active, historic public facilities, 4) implementing strategies such as phasing, containment, access control, and artifact protection, 5) directing and coordinating space planning, interior design and construction activities for a campus of buildings, 6) providing oversight of building standards for space, furniture and furnishings, and 7) using computer aided design (CADD) and facility management (CAFM) software to manage space. Answer to this question is required Has AT LEAST FIVE (5) years experience directing large-scale or sensitive renovation projects involving both design and construction in occupied, historic public facilities covering ALL elements listed. Demonstrates extensive expertise related to technical review and stakeholder management and sensitivities. Provides a clear example of balancing preservation and operations with strategic foresight and risk mitigation planning. Leads engagement with preservation authorities and agency leadership. Balances creativity, institutional needs, and regulatory requirements. Has obtained certification related to construction and code compliance and maintains continuing education in the field. Has AT LEAST FIVE (5) years experience directing large-scale or sensitive renovation projects involving both design and construction in occupied, historic facilities covering at least 5-6 elements listed. Demonstrates expertise related to technical review and stakeholder management and sensitivities. Provides a clear example of balancing preservation and operations with strategic foresight and risk mitigation planning. Has experience regularly engaging with preservation authorities and agency leadership. Balances creativity, institutional needs, and regulatory requirements. Has obtained recent advanced training on construction and code compliance (more than 80 hours). Has THREE (3) or MORE years experience directing large-scale or sensitive renovation projects involving both design and construction in occupied, historic facilities covering at least 5-6 elements listed. Demonstrates experience related to technical review and stakeholder management and sensitivities. Provides a clear example of balancing preservation and operations with strategic foresight and risk mitigation planning. Has some experience engaging with preservation authorities and agency leadership. Balances creativity, institutional needs, and regulatory requirements. Has completed basic training on construction and code compliance, such as a college course or professional seminar (40-80 hours). None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships and resolve problems managing facility projects and/or programs. Developed, maintained effective working relationships, and resolved problems engaging with a variety of professional, executive, and administrative personnel within the agency, other federal agencies, contractors and/or private institutions on topics related to facility space planning, design and construction services. This includes understating the client's mission and fulfilling the client's requirements by:&nbsp;&nbsp;1) balancing goals, customer expectations, and technical realities, 2) using strategies such as consensus-building, negotiation, or facilitation, 3) navigating concerns, adjusting schedules, and maintaining transparency, 4) prioritizing safety, access, and business continuity, and 5) using meetings, signage, alerts, or other communication tools to manage impact. Answer to this question is required Has THREE (3) or MORE years of experience providing leadership in resolving high-stakes, cross-organizational conflicts involving internal and external stakeholders with different roles and responsibilities on large, complex facility interior construction projects, including senior executives. Experienced in the use of diplomatic, structured engagement strategies (e.g., executive briefings, interagency coordination, negotiating, influencing, and persuading others with differing views). Has demonstrated ability to balance mission, preservation, operational, and user needs. Has TWO (2) years of experience providing leadership in resolving high-stakes, cross-organizational conflicts involving internal and external stakeholders with different roles and responsibilities on large, complex facility interior construction projects. Experienced in the use of diplomatic, structured engagement strategies (e.g., executive briefings, interagency coordination, negotiating, influencing, and persuading others with differing views). Has demonstrated ability to balance mission, preservation, operational, and user needs. Has experience providing leadership in resolving cross-organizational conflicts involving internal and external stakeholders with different roles and responsibilities on facility interior construction projects. Experienced in the use of diplomatic, structured engagement strategies (e.g., executive briefings, interagency coordination, negotiating, influencing, and persuading others with differing views). Has demonstrated ability to balance mission, preservation, operational, and user needs. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Knowledge of the federal procurement policies, financial transfers, and reporting processes as related to facility planning, design, renovation, and furniture services. Procured and managed the execution of contractor performed facility design, renovation services and/or furniture product by conducting the following: 1) assessing contractor capabilities, 2) writing scopes and statements of work, 3) generating independent government cost estimates, 4) reviewing contract proposals and conducting technical evaluations, 5) monitoring facility, planning, design and construction services, 6) drafting inter/intra-agency agreements, and 7) contributing to congressional reports and memoranda. Answer to this question is required Has AT LEAST FIVE (5) years of experience managing federal procurement processes for facility design, renovation services, and furniture product. Extensive knowledge of the FAR, GSA schedules, IDIQ/T&M contract use, and acquisition planning. Has served on evaluation panels, and managed vendor performance (e.g., reviewing pay apps, approving change orders). Served as a COR (Level II or III). Independently wrote ALL of the documents listed above. HAS THREE (3) or MORE years of experience managing federal procurement processes for facility design, renovation services, and furniture product. Thorough knowledge of the FAR, GSA schedules, IDIQ/T&M contract use, and acquisition planning. Has served on evaluation panels, and managed vendor performance (e.g., reviewing pay apps, approving change orders). Served as a COR (Level II). Independently wrote FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the documents listed above. Has THREE (3) or MORE years of experience managing federal procurement processes for facility design, renovation services, and furniture product. Comprehensive knowledge of the FAR, GSA schedules, IDIQ/T&M contract use, and acquisition planning. Has served on evaluation panels, and managed vendor performance (e.g., reviewing pay apps, approving change orders). Served as a COR (Level II). Assisted or contributed to FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the documents listed above. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to use innovative thinking and analytical methods to evaluate facility requirements. Evaluated operating capabilities and building requirements to identify and address short and long range needs and issues affecting overall facility planning, design and construction of the agency.&nbsp; This included thinking beyond traditional services to deliver the most efficient and effective industry standard best practices and solutions. Answer to this question is required Has independently conducted complex studies, gathered information, presented facts, drew conclusions and made recommendations on an agency’s interior design and renovation program. Work products have resulted in significant cost savings greater than $500,000 and process efficiencies. Has independently conducted complex studies, gathered information, presented facts, drew conclusions and made recommendations on an agency’s interior design and renovation program. Work products have resulted in cost savings less than $500,000 and process efficiencies. Has conducted or assisted in conducting complex studies, gathering information, presenting facts, drawing conclusions and making recommendations on an agency’s interior design and renovation program. Work products have resulted in cost savings less than $100,000 and/or process efficiencies. None of the above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).