Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to this position. (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in or directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experiences/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Choose the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic education requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an accredited college or university in illustrative design, commercial art, fine arts, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, or other fields related to the position. I have advanced training in a vocational school, technical institute, or art institute above the high school level in one of the fields listed above. I have specialized experience required for the position. This includes work in the appropriate field, e.g., design, modelmaking, art, taxidermy, or restoration. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.