Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Facilities Assistant communicates on a regular and recurring basis with institution management, vendors, co-workers, and inmates incarcerated in the assigned facility. The Facilities Assistant must possess effective oral communication skills to accomplish assignments such as purchasing needed equipment and supplies, managing, and maintaining the work requests for the institution, in directing and coordinating workflow of the office clerks, and responding to inquiries received from the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented information during Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I training; and/or I have worked in the Locator Center by answering calls and determined proper release of information; and/or I have conveyed non-technical information to callers and visitors regarding basic program requirements or procedures. I have answered general inquiries received; and/or I have advised/sought guidance from supervisor on issues effecting work; and/or I have directed callers to appropriate party for assistance. I have communicated new office procedure/information to co-workers; and/or I have presented basic information during staff meeting or institution recall; and/or I have apprised supervisor of status of project. None of the above. 3 The Facilities Assistant communicates with people of various backgrounds by writing effectively, using established rules and guidelines. He/she corresponds with management, staff, vendors, contractors, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have summarized data in a report; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings; and/or I have drafted minutes for staff meetings. I have prepared final minutes and notes for staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have prepared updated office procedures; and/or I have gathered and summarized information for supervisor. I have written internal/external memorandums; and/or I have prepared newsletter articles; and/or I have forwarded routine written information with other offices. None of the above. 4 The Facilities Assistant plans and organizes work, efficiently utilizing time and resources. He/she must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made travel arrangements for staff; and/or I have maintained supervisor’s calendar; and/or I have reserved conference rooms for meetings. I have trained fellow employees on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have aided individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have coordinated work with other subdivisions for special projects; and/or I have researched various software/hardware for the office and made a selection upon approval; and/or I have developed a data base that tracked projects/reports/papers or other tasks, ensuring staff met all timelines and due dates. None of the above. 5 The Facilities Assistant is required to operate and maintain a computerized program on all cost center/project work. To effectively perform the responsibilities of this position, the Facilities Assistant must possess the ability to work with data on a computer. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared requests for purchase; and/or I have edited correspondence on the computer; and/or I have created a database to store records; and/or I have generated non-standardized documents using the Microsoft Office Suite; and/or I have maintained financial data on a software program; and/or I have prepared automated time and attendance records. I have installed basic software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created basic charts and graphs; and/or I have created basic tables using a computer program; and/or I have collected required data from the computer according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have assisted in creating charts and graphs; and/or I have updated existing tables using a computer program. None of the above. 6 The Facilities Assistant must have a knowledge of the policies and procedures of a correctional environment, along with program specific guidelines and requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered routine phone inquiries in accordance with standard operating procedures; and/or I have reported safety violations; and/or I have prepared standard reports in compliance with established procedures. I have reviewed post orders and emergency plans, as required by policy; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have reviewed time and attendance records for accuracy; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with policy. I have used established checklists to ensure actions taken are following policy or governing regulations; and/or I have adhered to policy when determining deadlines for vendor payments; and/or I have explained policies and procedures to inmates, staff, or others. None of the above. 7 The Facilities Assistant must maintain systematic files, ledgers, and other required information relative to program area assigned. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained files for program review or comparable external audit purposes; and/or I have developed a checklist for various program processes which ensured compliance with applicable policies and procedures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have collected and organized information for use by others in preparing comprehensive reports or correspondence. I have maintained a tracking system of office expenditures; and/or I have gathered and organized recurring data for a supervisor; and/or I have assisted in maintaining financial data. I have maintained established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the inventory of supplies/equipment; and/or I have gathered and organized specific data requested by supervisor. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).