Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [1075] Choose the description that best describes your experience operating hydraulic and/or cable cranes. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to operate conventional hydraulic and cable cranes in excess of 25 tons, where maneuverability is restricted and accuracy is critical. I have the ability to operate conventional hydraulic cranes in excess of 25 tons, where maneuverability is generally not restricted and accuracy is critical. Lifts within the capacity of crane, boom length and angles are not critical. I have the ability to operate conventional hydraulic in excess of 25 tons, where maneuverability and accuracy is not critical. None of the above. 3 [1033] I have successfully used, applied and or followed the following instruction methods and guidelines on the job: Answer to this question is required Instruction manuals Blueprints Sketches Specifications Arithmetic Verbal instructions Written instructions Standard procedures Mathmatical Calculations None of the above 4 [1066] Choose the description that best describes your ability to follow instructions. Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience following written or oral instructions at work without direct supervision. I have followed written or oral instructions to perform routine maintenance work with direct supervision. I have demonstrated the ability to independently interpret blueprints and technical manuals for routine maintenance work with minimal supervision. I have demonstrated superior ability in interpreting and explaining instructions, blueprints, new procedures, and safe operation methods to others. I have demonstrated the ability to use maintenance manuals to perform more than routine maintenance on a variety of mechanical equipment with little or no supervision. 5 [11001] Choose the one response that best describes your knowledge, in an industrial/construction environment, of rigging while utilizing cables, slings, wire rope and nylon rigging. Answer to this question is required I have industrial experience working with wire rope, cables, and slings under the direct guidance of higher level workers. I have industrial/construction experience working with wire rope, cables, and slings while signaling fixed and mobile equipment such as cherry pickers and truck cranes. I have industrial/construction experience working with overhead cranes while utilizing wire rope, cables, and slings with some guidance. I also have the ability to make splices. None of the above 6 [4479] Select the equipment that you are skilled in operating. Answer to this question is required Air Compressors Forklifts Mobile Cranes Motor Vehicles Bridge Cranes Hydraulic Systems Operating Machinery None of the above 7 [55785] Select the option that best describes your knowledge of mooring, unmooring, and towing ships and other vessels. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have experience in mooring ships and/or vessels, but have little experience in unmooring ships and/or vessels. I have experience in unmooring ships and/or vessels, but have little experience in mooring ships and/or vessels. I have experience in mooring and unmooring ships and vessels and have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I am very comfortable, and experienced in mooring and unmooring ships and/or vessels. I perform this task as a regular part of my duties, and often assist others with this task. None of the above 8 [1103] Do you have the ability to perform heavy work standing, bending, climbing, stooping and reaching and lift items weighting up to 50 pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [5113] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions (e.g., bad weather, over extreme heights, near water). Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have applied my knowledge of general safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. 10 [8951] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in troubleshooting to determine the nature and extent of repairs necessary, materials or parts needed. Answer to this question is required I have done little to no troubleshooting on the job. I have had study or training in troubleshooting, but have not applied it on the job. I have used my knowledge or training in troubleshooting, but I have been closely supervised. I have applied my knowledge and/or experience in troubleshooting on my own, with little to no immediate supervision. I commonly troubleshoot on the job with no supervision. I supervise or train others in troubleshooting. 11 [22288] Select the statement that best describes your experience using technical practices with regards to loading/unloading methods to prevent damage during transport and to expedite unloading. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. 12 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 13 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 14 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 17 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 [72198] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 20 [72199] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 21 [72200] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 22 [72201] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 23 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 23.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 23.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 23.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).