Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select all of the following staffing activities which you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Develop vacancy announcements Identify quality ranking factors Assist managers in writing crediting plans Determine recruitment strategies Review applications for minimum qualifications Lead rating panels Issue merit promotion certificates Pay setting Process Personnel Actions Advise and consult with selecting officials None of the above 4 Which of the following Federal recruitment and staffing authorities and flexibilities do you use to meet hiring needs? Answer to this question is required Schedule A for persons with disabilities Pathways Programs (Internship Program, Presidential Management Fellows (PMF) Program, Recent Graduates Program) Delegated Examining (DE) Procedures under Title 5 U.S.C Category Rating Procedures Use of recruitment bonuses as incentives Crediting non-federal time for leave None of the above 5 Please identify the automated recruitment Human Resources systems you are proficient in using. Answer to this question is required People Soft Monster Hiring Management Enterprise (MHME) Avue Resumix Office of Personnel Management's USA Staffing Other commercial recruitment software None of the above 6 Select from the following that describes your background and experience in the area of recruitment and placement: Answer to this question is required I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in both the competitive and excepted service. I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in the competitive service. I have advised management officials on various types of appointments and their appropriate application in the excepted service. I have conducted job analysis on a wide variety of complex positions using research, interview, observation, and analytical techniques to gather, document, and analyze information to develop qualification standards. I have administered an organization`s special emphasis programs such as upward mobility, career intern, veterans` employment, persons with disabilities, and displaced employee, and advised management on special emphasis placement opportunities. I have determined appropriate selective factors and developed crediting plans to assess levels of competency possession. I have performed external recruitment by developing multiple recruitment strategies to attract scientists, engineers, and researchers to my organization. I have exercised delegated examining (DE) authority. I have collaborated with management in building comprehensive staffing plans and strategies. I have worked with management in the development of assessment questions for an automated HR application system. None of the above 7 Choose all response(s) that demonstrate the types of human resource management duties that you have performed in the area of recruitment and staffing: Answer to this question is required Developed job analyses, KSAs, and rating guides. Performed basic qualifications analysis. Conducted rating and ranking panels to determine the best qualified candidates. Provided advice and guidance to applicants on applying for federal jobs. Written vacancy announcements for delegated examining announcements. Written vacancy announcements for merit promotion vacancies. Developed questions for use in recruitment efforts through an automated staffing system. Consulted with managers regarding succession planning and position management. Set employee pay on new hires and promotions. Written or revised local policies and operating procedures on merit promotion. Participated in recruiting at a job fair / career fair on campus recruitment. Developed questions for a structured interview. Developed advertisements for web recruiting, journals, magazines and newspapers. Developed a comprehensive recruitment strategy for an occupational group or key positions at an agency level. I have no staffing or recruitment experience. 8 Choose the statement that BEST describes your ability to apply staffing regulations: Answer to this question is required I am familiar with federal staffing regulations, but have NOT applied the regulations as a regular part of my job. I have applied federal staffing regulations under close supervision from a manager or senior specialist. I have applied and interpreted federal staffing regulations as a regular part of my job on a regular basis. I have applied and interpreted federal staffing regulations as a regular part of my job and have assisted and/or trained others in this function. I have written staffing policies and procedures based on my interpretation of federal personnel regulations. None of the above. 9 Please select the following recruitment and placement task (s) that you have performed as a regular part of your job: Answer to this question is required Developing a job analysis. Preparing vacancy announcements. Rating applications against crediting plans. Reviewing applications for basic / minimum qualifications. None of the above. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 10 Are you certified with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for Delegated Examining (DE)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 What manuals, documents and/or instructions have you interpreted and applied while performing the functions of a Human Resources (HR) assistant? Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Qualifications Standards for General Schedule Positions Merit Promotion Plans Delegated Examining Operations Handbook (DEOH) Guide to Personnel Data Standards Guide to Personnel Record Keeping None of the above 12 From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describes your experience interpreting and applying a wide variety of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and agency regulations, and other instructional / regulatory materials: Answer to this question is required Ensured that all pre-employment forms were filled out and properly completed prior to entrance on duty (EOD) date. Provided information to management on special hiring programs and/or training requirements. Answered technical questions regarding OPM and/or agency personnel / training regulations. Provided information to management on performance program, or training requirements. Gathered information for applicant objection package. Resolved employee issues regarding benefits. Provided technical assistance to other Human Resources Assistants. Provided technical assistance to Human Resources Specialist(s). Assisted with processing employee arbitrations, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), and/or Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) complaints. Determined applicant eligibility for reinstatement or Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA). Selected proper remarks for SF-52s. Processed personnel actions. Entered vacancy announcements on OPM`s website or another HR automated system. Prepared training opportunity announcements by referring to training manual guidelines. None of the above. 13 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience coding documents in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations in preparation for data entry into an integrated personnel / payroll computer system: Answer to this question is required I have experience coding the full range of Federal personnel actions for data entry into a personnel / payroll system including new appointments, separations, benefits, position changes, pay changes and awards. I have experience coding a limited range of Federal personnel actions (e.g. benefits and awards) for data entry into a personnel / payroll system. I have experience in a non-Federal HR office coding personnel / payroll action documents in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations for data entry into an HR / personnel automated personnel computer system. I have limited experience in a non-Federal HR office coding personnel / payroll action documents in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations for data entry into an HR / personnel automated computer system. I have no experience, training or education with coding documents in preparation for data entry in accordance with prescribed rules and regulations. 14 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience providing human resources advice and being viewed as an HR consultant / partner in resolving key management problems? Answer to this question is required I have met with a variety of individuals within and outside the organization to resolve issues that affect human resources programs. I have instructed, advised, or participated in meetings with groups or individuals on sensitive human resources issues. I have played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting issues related to staffing and employment functions. I keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to better serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have experience that involves routinely working with management officials to resolve unique or complex HR issues in a way that reflects a partnership with management or shared problem solving. This includes exploring unique or untried solutions and sharing options, initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships, and soliciting feedback on programs and services. None of the Above 15 Which of the following human resources functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determined appropriate nature of action, authority, or remarks codes. Processed a variety of personnel actions. Reviewed personnel actions to ensure all required entries have been included and approvals have been obtained. Ensured accuracy of personnel data based on regulatory authority, instructions, policies and procedures Computes service computation dates (SCD) Purged and reviewed Official Personnel Folders (OPF's) and made necessary corrections as necessary. None of the above 16 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence Technical reports Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Directives Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Analysis of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Strategic plans Budget or financial plans Performance measures None of the above 17 Which of the following statements most accurately describes your recruiting experience? Answer to this question is required I have managed recruitment programs for an organization where I attended career / job fairs, worked with college and university placement offices, and marketed the organization to potential applicant pools. I have been a recruiter for an organization where I attended career / job fairs and worked with college and university placement offices. I have created and managed recruitment programs for an organization, established initial relationships with college and university placement offices, and created campaigns to market the organization to potential applicant pools. I have experience announcing vacancies through various media that are intended to reach well-qualified applicants. None of the above. 18 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 19 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving speaking and presenting information: Answer to this question is required Delivered presentations to groups of 1 to 20 persons. Delivered presentations to groups of 20 to 100 persons. Delivered presentations to groups over 100 persons. Delivered presentations to hostile or adversarial audiences. Briefed senior management. Briefed a Board of Directors or similar governing body. Presented at professional conferences or seminars. Presented at division or office staff meetings or conferences. Presented at inter-agency meetings. Presented at industry or trade group meetings. Served as an expert witness or gave testimony in a legal proceeding. None of the above. 20 Select the types of investigative or compliance work products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Background files on pertinent intelligence information, analytical techniques and procedures for assessing intelligence information. Papers and documents relating to the interpretation of laws and regulations. Guidelines to increase the effectiveness of laws and regulations. Publications of notices in the Federal Register. Documents outlining opinions and findings and making substantive policy and/or operational recommendations to senior level officials. Diplomatic cables or other official `demarche` instruction. Letter for higher level signature that responds to all elements of a compliance case, including requirements for corrective action. Report of findings. Briefing materials on compliance and/or investigative issues. Tips or `how to` modules on the laws, regulations, office functions, policies and/or procedures. Audit or visit reports. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.