Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to manage the full range of archival stewardship activities for collections documenting folklife, ethnomusicology, oral history and documentary studies.** Applied professional knowledge of ethnographic collections to administer archival programs. Demonstrated experience managing acquisitions, processing, preservation, and collections access activities in an cultural heritage setting, including: 1) setting priorities and policies for acquiring, processing, preserving, and making accessible ethnographic collections; 2) working closely with special format divisions and their subject specialists in setting processing priorities and targets; 3) managing a division or department&rsquo;s custodial collections; 4) developing authoritative new approaches, methods, or standards to resolve critical and highly unusual problems related to stewarding digital materials; 5) designing and managing archival collecting initiatives. Answer to this question is required As a manager of archives in a research library or agency, initiated, planned and executed acquisitions, processing, preservation, and collections access activities and performed ALL of the tasks listed above. As a manager of archives in a research library, initiated, planned and executed acquisitions, processing, preservation, and collections access activities and performed FOUR (4) of the tasks listed above. As a manager of archives in a research library, initiated, planned and executed acquisitions, processing, preservation, and collections access activities and performed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to manage and lead a diverse workforce.** Managed a diverse team and demonstrated proficiency in the following competencies: 1) Acted decisively with good judgment while communicating information; 2) Encouraged employee participation in decision making; 3) Ensured everyone is treated fairly and with respect; 4) Demonstrated flexibility by adjusting priorities to meet demands; 5) Fostered continuous improvement of business processes; 6) Coached and promoted ongoing development of staff, including subordinate supervisors; 7) Demonstrated fair and ethical treatment of staff and managed conflicts in a positive manner; 8) Managed performance by communicating expectations, giving timely and constructive feedback, holding staff accountable, and taking appropriate corrective action when needed; 9) Demonstrated commitment to high quality customer service; and 10) Delegated work, monitored performance and held staff accountable for meeting standards. Answer to this question is required Oversaw the performance of personnel and direct reports while exercising ALL of the responsibilities above, in an executive, supervisory or managerial capacity. Oversaw the performance of personnel and direct reports while exercising NINE (9) of the responsibilities above, in an executive, supervisory or managerial capacity. Oversaw the performance of personnel and direct reports while exercising at least EIGHT (8) of the responsibilities above, in an executive, supervisory or managerial capacity. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions to plan and carry out library programs.** Developed, planned, implemented, and analyzed the strategies necessary to execute library programs and projects, including collections management. Provided appropriate strategies to solve program and/or organizational and operational issues and problems. Functions performed include: 1) developed new or enhanced procedures within a work unit, 2) independently made technical judgments, 3) developed practices and standards, 4) justified new and revised programs and projects to upper management, and 5) built and maintained coalitions with individuals and organizations, including high-ranking government officials and members of a cultural community, inside and outside the organization, to develop and implement programs. Answer to this question is required Took a lead role in developing, planning, implementing and evaluating new or enhanced library programs and projects, including collection management, by performing ALL of the functions listed above. Took a lead role in developing, planning, implementing and/or evaluating new or enhanced library programs and projects, including collection management, by performing FOUR (4) of the functions listed above, including #5. Took a lead role in developing, planning, implementing and/or evaluating new or enhanced library programs and projects, including collection management, by performing THREE (3) of the functions listed above, including #5. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products related to library services. Examples include: (1) policies and procedures, (2) planning documents, (3) reports, (4) memoranda and external correspondence, (5) analyses, (6) technical proposals, (7) statistical reports, (8) project execution requirements, 9) guidelines on information and research requests, and 10) performance appraisals. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote ALL of the above documents. As a principal author, independently wrote at least EIGHT (8) of the above documents, including #10. As principal author, independently wrote at least SEVEN (7) of the above documents, including #10. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).