Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: &nbsp;Applicant must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the Disctrict of Columbia Applicants must submit a copy of their license at the time you apply.&nbsp; The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND have uploaded my documentation. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, administer and interpret psychological/neuropsychological tests, and integrate all available information to diagnose and treat mental health disorders, including substance use disorders.&nbsp; He/she also must consult with staff regarding the management of incarcerated individuals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological screening tests, personality inventories like the MMPI, intelligence tests like the WAIS, suicide risk assessments, or the Strong-Campbell Vocational Interest Inventory; and/or I have written psychological reports which included assessment results; and/or I have conducted research that included psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments. I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology, or vocational assessment; and/or I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 5 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for substance use disorders, as well as schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders, bipolar and related disorders, depressive disorders, anxiety disorders, trauma-related disorders, and personality disorders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, made treatment recommendations for patients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, conducted therapy using at least two different treatment interventions such as: cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy, Eye Movement Desensitization Reprocessing, or biofeedback; and/or I have, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have assisted in the treatment of patients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews, or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have assisted with a research project that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. I have treated patients using various treatment techniques such as: cognitive-behavioral interventions, biofeedback, suicide prevention, reality therapy, relaxation techniques, problem-solving, anger management, or group counseling; and/or I have conducted research on the effectiveness of treatment interventions; and/or I have identified and referred patients who could benefit from treatment involving psychotropic medications or neurological interventions. None of the above. 6 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must have knowledge of substance use disorders, schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders, bipolar and related disorders, depressive disorders, anxiety disorders, trauma-related disorders, and personality disorders to understand the behavior of individuals and provide appropriate interventions.&nbsp; One of his/her major duties is counseling incarcerated individuals individually and group setting.&nbsp; He/she must have a working knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality, substance use and mental health disorders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided individual and group psychotherapy, based on a through case conceptualization of each participant, with the goal of meeting specific patient needs using a variety of treatment techniques such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, or psycho-educational; and/or I have developed patient specific treatment plans with measurable treatment goals; and/or I have conducted research that included the evaluation of treatment effectiveness as part of the study. I have with direction, conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral interventions, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychoanalysis, psychoeducation, or biofeedback; and/or I have assisted with research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group with supervision. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. None of the above. 7 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal patients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. None of the above. 8 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator is responsible for coordinating and directing the Drug Abuse Program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a practicum in a specialty area of psychology; and/or I have conducted a research project in a specialty area in psychology; and/or I have worked in a setting that treated mentally ill, impulsive/aggressive, or developmentally delayed individuals. I have served as a coordinator of a substance use treatment program developing programming, diagnosing psychological problems, presenting treatment recommendations, providing therapy, and administrative tasks related to drug treatment programs; and/or I have practiced in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have worked as a treatment therapist in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have supervised graduate students as they performed substance use assessments; and/or I have worked as a treatment specialist with incarcerated individuals; and/or I have assisted with research on a specialty treatment program. I have supervised one or more subordinate treatment specialists; and/or I have taught courses or provided training in the area of substance use and related disorders and treatments; and/or I have used specialized psychodiagnostics assessment techniques to evaluate substance use problems; and/or I have exhibited leadership skills by establishing and meeting unit/agency objectives; and/or I have created a new specialty treatment program; and/or I have served on a work group to develop curricula or training material for a specialty treatment program; and/or I have conducted research on the effectiveness of a specialty treatment program. None of the above. 9 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates with on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).