Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission - Protecting People and the Environment Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Ability to direct, lead, and manage a diverse technical staff in mission-critical programs with competing deadlines, conflicting resource demands, and changing environments. (See examples below) Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required Describe specific training, education, and experience that demonstrates your ability to manage a diverse workforce; create and foster a positive team environment within and across Branches, Divisions, and Offices; implement changes in practices and policies; identify personnel needs; select, motivate, and develop personnel; apply equal employment opportunity (EEO) principles and practices; balance work among employees; establish standards and evaluate performance; ensure adequacy of internal controls; identify labor market conditions affecting availability of resources; recognize potential; and delegate authority. 2 Ability to communicate information, ideas, and advice in a clear, concise, and logical manner, both orally and in writing, with colleagues, subordinates, NRC management in headquarters or regions, ACRS, the Commission, members of the public, representatives of professional groups, other Federal or State agencies, and international regulatory counterparts. &nbsp;Ability to build and sustain coalitions across organizations. (See examples below) Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required Describe specific experience, training, and accomplishments which demonstrate communication skills and your ability to: use formal and informal networks to build support for programs; lead complex and technical discussions and consolidate complex and diverse opinions into concise, balanced and well-founded recommendations; and communicate effectively in work relationships with subordinates, peers, management, government or industry officials, and/or international regulatory body counterparts to develop solutions to regulatory problems and issues. Describe the kinds of oral and written presentations you have made to represent agency positions to others and complex technical documents you have developed. Describe what editorial review of work prepared by technical staff you have conducted, if any. 3 (F0617)Knowledge of the applicable NRC rules, regulations, policies, practices, and procedures for either power, non-power reactors, or similar regulated entities, including regulatory guides, industry codes and standards and other NRC criteria and ability to interpret and apply these criteria. Knowledge and ability to apply effective decision making using available information and risk or severe accidents insights. (See examples below) Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required (X0734) Describe specific experience, education, and training which demonstrate your knowledge of the applicable NRC rules, regulations, policies, practices, and procedures for nuclear facilities and materials, including regulatory guides, industry codes, and standards. Provide specific examples of how you have applied and interpreted rules, Executive Orders, regulatory guides, industry codes, standards and other criteria. 4 Knowledge of the design, licensing, operation, inspection, and/or decommissioning of nuclear power plants. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required Describe work experience, education, training or developmental assignments which have provided you with knowledge and understanding of the broad principles of design, licensing, operation, inspection and/or decommissioning of nuclear reactor or material facilities. If applicable, describe knowledge in specific areas such as: safety evaluation of plant design and modifications, safety evaluation documentation, understanding and applicability of industry codes and standards to plant design, licensing, and inspection, and specific knowledge and experience with regulation of nuclear facilities systems.&nbsp; Describe knowledge and experience in applying risk insights to regulatory decisions for nuclear facilities. &nbsp;The focus of this factor is the depth and ability to apply your knowledge and experience to resolve licensing, policy and inspection activities. View Vacancy Details We welcome your feedback on NRCareers. To contact us, please see Contact Us About Employment and select NRCareers from the dropdown list. Working at NRC Opportunities Outreach New Employees Apply Now Contact Us This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).