Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Legislative Affairs Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the staff of Members of Congress, the public and high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with members of Congress or their staff and appropriately communicated the position of the agency/organization on a policy matter; and/or I have met with mid-level administrators from a department within the federal government or a state government and communicated the position of the agency/organization on an issue for the agency or the department; and/or I have provided follow-up policy information to executive level official. I have prepared and presented statements or comments to the news media; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to executive staff members; and/or I have briefed executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs or procedures; and/or I have given a speech at a civic or community activity as a representative of the agency; and/or I have communicated sensitive information on inmates with specific representatives of other agencies (i.e., U.S. Marshal Service, U.S. Attorneys, and Federal Judges) as required. I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have briefed Executive Staff at regional or agency level on inmate case information; and/or I have provided formal training to management on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 3 The Legislative Affairs Specialist prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, and briefing papers on highly sensitive and/or technical topics. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include Congress and State Legislatures, high level agency officials, and staff of other government and non-governmental agencies involved in criminal justice activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by peers; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have developed national training initiatives; and/or I have developed a standard operating manual/procedure guide which explained laws, regulations, etc., in layman’s terms; and/or I have collaborated with others on a position paper that justified decisions made by the agency/organization. I have composed part of a written statement (Congressional testimony) for the appearance of an agency/organization official as a witness at a Congressional hearing addressing an agency/organization policy or program(s); and/or I have composed an issue paper, “white paper,” or other similar document that provided a summary and analysis of an important agency/organization policy or position; and/or I have reviewed and edited documents that communicated the policy, program(s), or position(s), of an agency/organization to mid-level administrators within government agencies. I have prepared draft articles for internal newsletters; and/or I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a program/operational review or comparable external/internal audit. None of the above. 4 The Legislative Affairs Specialist analyzes a variety of information and supplements creditable information from a variety of sources. He/she is required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy, recommending changes or updates as necessary; and/or I have conducted a portion of a research project which involved data collection from a variety of sources and presented suggestions for future research. I have reviewed miscellaneous appeal cases which have not been resolved at a lower level and recommended response actions; and/or I have used SENTRY or other available automated system to ascertain statistical data to include in a proposal/justification for critical additional funding; and/or I have prepared responses to inmate grievances or congressional inquiries based on analysis of all investigative information, trends, and data collected. I have prepared documents or provided oral presentations that synthesized such information into concise summaries and provided recommendations to mid-level agency/organization managers; and/or I have composed letters, issue papers, or similar documents that involved the review, analysis, and summarization of agency/organization policies; and/or I have completed project that involved the collection, review, and analysis of voluminous data and information. None of the above. 5 The Legislative Affairs Specialist must possess extensive knowledge of the organization, operations and functions of the Bureau of Prisons in order to appropriately serve as an agency spokesperson with Congress and State Legislatures. He/she must be able to evaluate, and disseminate critical information relative to the Bureau of Prisons programs, policies and/or plans. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used knowledge of federal or state criminal justice systems to identify constituencies affected by a legislative proposal and helped develop communications of information to these entities; and/or I have coordinated the efforts of mid-level agency managers to summarized a new law or legislative proposal and its effect on federal, state, or local corrections and criminal justice systems in broad terms; and/or I have prepared a summary of the impact of legislation, including an assessment of its effect on federal, state, or local corrections and criminal justice systems. I have provided executive staff-level advice and recommendations for policy, program, or practices to be implemented within the field; and/or I have identified a need and established a training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have participated on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution; and/or I have performed critical duties during the American Correctional Association accreditation process. I have provided Branch Chief-level advice and recommendations for policy, program, or practices to be implemented within the field; and/or I have provided institution oversight as the institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have participated in program or operational review; and/or I have participated as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. None of the above. 6 The Legislative Affairs Specialist must appropriately respond to positive, as well as negative issues, impacting the Bureau of Prisons. He/she must possess the ability to encourage, defend or enlighten targeted audiences on the position of the Bureau. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess comprehensive knowledge of agency policy and procedures regarding the release and dissemination of information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided general information to congressional staff; and/or I have gathered/organized items of interest for supervisory consideration; and/or I have provided general information to the public at career fairs, explaining the benefits of employment. I have responded to important and complicated correctional inquiries with staff from the office of Members of Congress in a professional and meaningful manner; and/or I have provided timely and accurate information to an agency/organization public information officer for use in his/her response to news media sources or in public forums; and/or I have responded to officials from other government agencies requesting information about the Bureau of Prisons/component policies, programs, services, and operations as it relates to federal laws or legislation. I have aided in preparing a response to the media on a major issue; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information Requests; and/or I have provided information on inmates housed in the Bureau of Prisons to the public or congressional staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).