Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Did a current National Gallery of Art employee recommend that you apply for this position? If yes, please indicate the employee’s full name and position occupied with the National Gallery of Art. If No please write "N/A" Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Have you previously been employed with the National Gallery of Art? If yes, please indicate the position you held and the dates you were employed at the National Gallery of Art. If No please write "N/A". Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 I have been a security officer for at least one full year. Answer to this question is required True 3.1 My year of security officer experience has been at least at the Federal GS-5 equivalent level. True False False 4 Do you qualify for veteran preference, as described by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), at http://www.opm.gov/staffingportal/vetguide.asp#2Types? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Can you lift and carry an unconscious person, with the assistance of one other person? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Are you able to stoop and bend, such as required to provide CPR? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Can you carry a 20 pound object without assistance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Can you climb and descend two flights of steps quickly, without difficulty? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you ever operated a fire extinguisher? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Can you stand 2.5 hours, without a break, on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Can you stand every work day for cumulative total of 5 hours and 40 minutes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you able to work in closed and confined spaces, such as a security booth and underground facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Do you have the agility and ability to subdue violent suspects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Are you able to hear conversational voice and radio transmissions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Are you able to convey information via portable radio and telephone at a normal conversational volume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Have you ever been responsible for conducting a safety inspection of any kind, as part of your job? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following most accurately describes your experience conducting physical searches of containers, cases, bags or vehicles? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Have you ever played a role in one of the following efforts: 1) evacuating a large building or neighborhood, under emergency conditions, or 2) participating in a shelter-in-place exercise or event? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Have you ever been trained in first aid and/or cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Which of the following emergency situations have you responded to in a security or law enforcement capacity? Answer to this question is required Bomb threat Medical emergency (e.g., cardiac arrest, seizure, injured visitor, etc.) Building fire Hazardous chemical spill Building evacuation Assault Shoplifting Shooting Lost persons Hostage situation None of the above 21 Do you have experience assisting others during medical emergencies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 Do you have experience evacuating others during emergencies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 23 Describe your experience providing customer service in a positive manner. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 24 Choose the statement(s) that most accurately describes your experience communicating with others in a difficult situation. Answer to this question is required I have resolved difficult or sensitive situations involving antagonistic or hostile individuals. I have resolved difficult and sensitive situations involving customers with diverse needs and backgrounds. I have had training or education in the areas of conflict resolution or interpersonal skills development. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.