Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 How do you meet the basic qualifications for this position? Answer to this question is required I have a degree in horticulture; or a related discipline of basic plant science that included at least 30 semester hours in the basic plant sciences, of which at least 16 semester hours were in horticultural subjects such as those dealing with the breeding, care, management, production, and post harvest handling of horticultural crops. I have the combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in horticulture or a related discipline of basic plant science that included course work as shown in item one above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not have the education, or a combination of education and experience listed above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with plants and plant materials used in landscaping? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in the proper landscape use of a wide range of flowers, grasses, perennials, shrubs, trees and bamboos. I have experience in the proper unsupervised use of fertilizers, herbicides, and insecticides and fungicides. I have experience in recognizing most common plants and shrubs. I have experience of a wide range of plants and their cultural requirements. I have experience in a wide range of ornamental and exotic plants. I do not have related experience. 3 Which of the following settings have you performed horticulture functions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required A zoo horticulture unit. A commercial landscape company working at a zoo. A commercial landscape company. A landscape company. Other. None of the above. 4 Which of the following types of gardens/landscapes do you have experience maintaining in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Natural gardens with a majority of native plants. Formal gardens containing sheared hedges and intricate planting arrangements. Plantings and beds in golf courses, shopping centers, apartments, or office complexes. Theme gardens such as Japanese, topiary, rose, rooftop, or aquatic gardens. Park district plantings or community parks. Vegetable gardens and/or community plots. I have no experience maintaining gardens/landscapes in a professional capacity. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your plant display experience? Answer to this question is required I have designed and installed large and complex plant displays in an area over 1000 sq ft. I have designed and installed complex plant displays in an area under 1000 sq ft. I have installed plant displays using an established design. I assisted others with installing plant displays. I have no experience designing or installing plants displays. 6 Which of the following have you used in landscape management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Trucks. Tractors. Rototillers. Sprayers. Hand tools. None of the above. 7 Which of the following pieces of equipment do you have experience using in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Skid steer Forklift Compact utility loader Chainsaw Backpack blower Rototiller None of the above 8 Which of the following horticulture functions do you perform on a regular basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planting. Pruning. Irrigation. Turf grass management. Integrated pest management (IPM). None of the above. 9 Which of the following settings have you participated in the seasonal planting of flower beds and planters to present year-round horticultural interest?(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required At a zoo. On a university campus. At a garden center or retail nursery. A public garden. At a landscape company. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience installing seasonal displays and/or exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have removed existing vegetation and installed seasonal flowers, perennials, or shrubs in new landscape beds. I have removed existing vegetation, amended soil, and graded and installed plant material in a new landscape bed. I have converted existing turf areas into garden beds by removing turf, amending soil, and planting annuals, perennials, and woody plants. I have installed seasonal flowers, perennials, and shrubs in existing landscape beds. I have installed seasonal flowers and perennials in existing landscape beds. I have installed seasonal flowers (annuals) in existing landscape beds. I have no experience with installing seasonal displays and/or exhibits. 11 This position requires that you be able to perform the following duties: frequent walking, standing, stooping, bending, kneeling, and pushing of carts, mowers and wheelbarrows, occasionally climbs ladders to prune vegetation and frequently lifts heavy objects such as bags or fertilizer, logs or rocks. Answer to this question is required I am able to perform the duties listed above. I am unable to peform the duties listed above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.