Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Education Technician must work with other staff, volunteer and contract staff, teachers, community library personnel, paralegal technicians, and all program participants.&nbsp; He/she must also deal tactfully and effectively with participants of varying educational and socioeconomic backgrounds.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented monthly updates and reminders to students/inmates; and/or I have received and routed telephone messages for education staff; and/or I have provided directions to students/inmates at various educational functions; and/or I have answered questions at course registration. I have provided management with information on class attendance; and/or I have provided General Education Development (GED) test results to management; and/or I have counseled problematic students/inmates. I have explained overall testing procedures to students/inmates; and/or I have instructed students/inmates regarding completion of answer sheets; and/or I have conversed and exchanged ideas with staff at other facilities. None of the above. 3 The Education Technician prepares program activity reports to update management on enrollments, completions, and withdrawals.&nbsp; He/she also write a variety of correspondence, including, memoranda, electronic mail, purchase requests, and requisitions for supplies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained information and/or researched and responded to inquiries from staff members/students/customers; and/or I have assisted students/inmates with correspondence to outside schools and colleges where they may seek admission upon release/graduation; and/or I have drafted emails or memorandum to be sent to direct supervisor or departmental employees. I have drafted letters of appreciation to outside guests/lecturers; and/or I have drafted letter inviting outside guests in for educational programs or activities; and/or I have written inmate performance evaluations. I have drafted letters seeking volunteers; and/or I have written letters/e-mails to clarify questions regarding students/inmates; and/or I have requested student transcripts. None of the above. 4 The Education Technician must be able to identify elements of program activities that have an impact on major assignments.&nbsp; He/she must also keep informed about alternative education programs to which temporary assignments are made.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained books and equipment; and/or I have compared and reconciled using an automated system (i.e., class capacity, class completions); and/or I have ensured proper check-out and exchanged procedures; and/or I have conducted Time and Attendance (T&A) report audits for all department staff; and/or I have processed purchases required for law library per operations directive. I have ensured all reporting requirements of the education department are met; and/or I have created, maintained, and filed education records for each student; and/or I have maintained inventory and submitted requisitions for ordering equipment and supplies. I have retrieved electronic data to determine activity in education programs; and/or I have compared numbers of education non-duplicated enrollments to agency/company goals; and/or I have monitored procurement and verified receipts for materials such as law books, research materials, and magazine subscriptions and/or newspapers. None of the above. 5 The Education Technician must accurately enter and maintain information on course enrollments, withdrawals, and completions.&nbsp; He/she must be able to use Microsoft products to produce written reports for management and send electronic mail messages and access policy.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created a table with columns, lines, and various fonts; and/or I have typed statistical report on a table; and/or I have maintained basic student information in computer/Sentry systems using various software; and/or I have, under close supervision, conducted computer transactions needed to update student electronic records; and/or I have worked with the system and the transactions needed to update electronic records. I have retrieved electronic messages from an existing system or other electronic mail/messaging system; and/or I have coded and keyed data to access a specific report; and/or I have entered data in computer system for fund control purchases. I have entered data provided from management into an existing system; and/or I have submitted Performance Pay reports to the department supervisor; and/or I have ensured accuracy of all documents; and/or I have keyed and submitted Time and Attendance (T&A) data. None of the above. 6 The Education Technician must possess a knowledge of program objectives, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements affecting educational programs.&nbsp; He/she must also enforce Bureau of Prisons program statements, institution supplements, and regulations and procedures in a correctional setting, particularly when dealing with contract personnel.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved and provided weekly reports which monitored the assignments for students/released inmates; and/or I have explained educational program statements to students/inmates; and/or I have created and maintained educational records for each student/inmate; and/or I have tracked and prepared certificates for program completions; and/or I have provided oversight for evening programs. I have coordinated all library functions; and/or I have assisted in conducting semi-annual law library inventories; and/or I have answered student/inmate questions regarding educational program offerings during orientation. I have advised other education staff of changes in policy as national program statements; and/or I have followed test administration procedures; and/or I have answered questions regarding education standards. None of the above. Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Education Technician must work with other staff, volunteer and contract staff, teachers, community library personnel, paralegal technicians, and all program participants.&nbsp; He/she must also deal tactfully and effectively with participants of varying educational and socioeconomic backgrounds. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained overall testing procedures to students/inmates; and/or I have instructed students/inmates regarding completion of answer sheets; and/or I have conversed and exchanged ideas with staff at other facilities. I have briefed management on overall enrollment in all education classes; and/or I have briefed management on enrollment in college courses; and/or I have interviewed incoming inmates/students to determine educational interests; and/or I have presented an oral report on education activities; and/or I have assisted with classroom attendance and student accountability. I have provided management with information on class attendance; and/or I have provided General Education Development (GED) test results to management; and/or I have counseled problematic students/inmates. None of the above. 3 The Education Technician prepares program activity reports to update management on enrollments, completions, and withdrawals.&nbsp; He/she also write a variety of correspondence, including, memoranda, electronic mail, purchase requests, and requisitions for supplies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted a summary of all educational programs with descriptions; and/or I have written an educational recommendation regarding programs for students/inmates; and/or I have prepared documentation during a unit team/counseling group; and/or I have corresponded via e-mail with management staff; and/or I have assisted with the law library inventory. I have drafted letters seeking volunteers; and/or I have written letters/e-mails to clarify questions regarding students/inmates; and/or I have requested student transcripts. I have drafted letters of appreciation to outside guests/lecturers; and/or I have drafted letter inviting outside guests in for educational programs or activities; and/or I have written inmate performance evaluations. None of the above. 4 The Education Technician must be able to identify elements of program activities that have an impact on major assignments.&nbsp; He/she must also keep informed about alternative education programs to which temporary assignments are made.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained books and equipment; and/or I have compared and reconciled using an automated system (i.e., class capacity, class completions); and/or I have ensured proper check-out and exchanged procedures; and/or I have conducted Time and Attendance (T&A) report audits for all department staff; and/or I have processed purchases required for law library per operations directive. I have ensured all reporting requirements of the education department are met; and/or I have created, maintained, and filed education records for each student; and/or I have maintained inventory and submitted requisitions for ordering equipment and supplies. I have analyzed, and summarized information on budget utilized for a student/inmate education program; and/or I have verified enrollment data; and/or I have verified and compiled statistical information needed for report for administrator’s submission to a regional authority and/or Central Office; and/or I have processed purchases required for the law library per operations directive. None of the above. 5 The Education Technician must accurately enter and maintain information on course enrollments, withdrawals, and completions.&nbsp; He/she must be able to use Microsoft products to produce written reports for management and send electronic mail messages and access policy. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have accessed education information on computer/Sentry system; and/or I have keyed test results in system; and/or I have, using Microsoft Word, written descriptions of course offerings; and/or I have, as instructed, produced reports and transactions needed to monitor program progress and complied with policy and updated student electronic records. I have entered data provided from management into an existing system; and/or I have submitted Performance Pay reports to the department supervisor; and/or I have ensured accuracy of all documents; and/or I have keyed and submitted Time and Attendance (T&A) data. I have created a table with columns, lines, and various fonts; and/or I have typed statistical report on a table; and/or I have maintained basic student information in computer/Sentry systems using various software; and/or I have, under close supervision, conducted computer transactions needed to update student electronic records; and/or I have worked with the system and the transactions needed to update electronic records. None of the above. 6 The Education Technician must possess a knowledge of program objectives, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements affecting educational programs. He/she must also enforce Bureau of Prisons program statements, institution supplements, and regulations and procedures in a correctional setting, particularly when dealing with contract personnel.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated all library functions; and/or I have assisted in conducting semi-annual law library inventories; and/or I have answered student/inmate questions regarding educational program offerings during orientation. I have advised other education staff of changes in policy as national program statements; and/or I have followed test administration procedures; and/or I have answered questions regarding education standards. I have applied assignments from the Education Department Sentry (EDS) manual; and/or I have ensured accountability of policy, information, memos or correspondence; and/or I have responded to students/customers/inmates’ requests regarding educational programs; and/or I have followed all education-related program statements and supplements; and/or I have assisted with the coordination and supervision of inmate libraries and/or evening programs such as student gatherings or inmate taught classes. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).