Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Special Population Program Coordinator must be able to demonstrate the ability to provide counseling in either a group or individual setting.&nbsp; He/she must learn and apply new assessment and counseling techniques and use these techniques to develop rapport and goals during counseling sessions with inmates.&nbsp; During counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor behavior and facilitate the group process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided crisis counseling to inmates in a diversion program; and/or I have facilitated a group for members of a special population; and/or I have provided individual or group counseling with full responsibility for implementation of treatment plans; and/or I have trained others in assisting inmates in individual or group counseling techniques. I have provided group or individual counseling to a non-correctional, special population, such as day treatment classes, or informational groups; and/or I have provided training to staff on group or individual counseling techniques; and/or I have counseled individuals with problems as woman, individual living with a disability, or veteran. As a practicum student, intern, or volunteer, I have co-facilitated support groups; and/or I have, as a practicum student, intern, or volunteer, provided group or individual counseling in an outpatient setting; and/or I have, as a practicum student, intern, or volunteer, co-facilitated a psycho-educational group. None of the above. 4 The Special Population Program Coordinator must understand the nature of the disorders and needs of members of special populations to effectively plan and implement programming for the identified inmate special population.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must possess knowledge of the facts, concepts, principles and theories of human behavior and disorders/behavior problems and the associated skill based and social problems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a practicum with substance abuse, developmental disorders, neuropsychology, or abnormal psychology; and/or I have worked as an interviewer in a research study on substance abuse, developmental disorders, neuropsychology, or abnormal psychology; and/or I have worked as an entry level technician, providing treatment of development disorders, neurological impairment, and/or mental illness. I have used a standardized interview to make a provisional determination of an inmate’s needs; and/or I have formally evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness of admittance into a program; and/or I have, from a psycho-social interview, developed appropriate program plans for individual assessed. I have performed routine screenings for referrals to appropriate program or treatment settings; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine individual’s needs for support services such as medical, disability, veteran or housing services; and/or I have performed routine screening to determine if medical or psychological testing is required. None of the above. 5 The Special Population Program Coordinator must be able to demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive reports for program planning, progress reports, individual program summaries and referrals for reentry programming.&nbsp; These reports may be included with correspondence to the Judiciary, United States Probation, Veteran&rsquo;s Administration officials, community volunteers or stakeholders, Residential Reentry Centers, or Community Treatment Service providers.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared clinical/program intake interviews with a summary of the interview outcome for supervisor’s review; and/or I have completed summaries of psycho-social histories; and/or I have completed draft treatment/program plans; and/or I have documented programming/clinical notes resulting from treatment screenings. I have assisted staff in preparing a comprehensive assessment for inclusion in a final report; and/or I have prepared assessments under the supervision of another individual; and/or I have written program treatment plans for review; and/or I have summarized psycho-social histories based on self-reported information. I have completed notes on individual participation in individual or group psychotherapy; and/or I have developed referrals for other clinicians; and/or I have developed treatment plans for supervisor’s signature; and/or I have developed treatment summaries for supervisor’s signature. None of the above. 6 The Special Population Program Coordinator employed by the Federal Bureau of Prisons must possess strong verbal communication skills in order to provide individual and group counseling sessions to inmates, interview and perform assessments of inmates entering into programming, and explain program requirements, procedures and program plans with offenders.&nbsp; He/she also needs to present programming to the institution administration and staff and to community coalitions and stakeholders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have spoken clearly with a supervisor about an inmate’s/client’s needs in order to solve a problem; and/or I have discussed a problem with an inmate or staff member, and resolved the situation successfully; and/or I have taught an inmate/staff member a skill on a work detail or in a housing unit. I have participated in a workgroup related to a special population including female offenders, individuals with disabilities, or veterans; and/or I have conducted research for an educational seminar; and/or I have participated in an informative group meeting in counseling skills. I have shared ideas with staff and others to enhance communication skills; and/or I have facilitated process groups; and/or I have, under supervision, led a group session regarding the needs of a special population including female offenders, individuals with disabilities, or veterans. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Special Population Program Coordinator must be able to demonstrate the ability to provide counseling in either a group or individual setting.&nbsp; He/she must learn and apply new assessment and counseling techniques and use these techniques to develop rapport and goals during counseling sessions with inmates.&nbsp; During counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor behavior and facilitate the group process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided crisis counseling to inmates in a diversion program; and/or I have facilitated a group for members of a special population; and/or I have provided individual or group counseling with full responsibility for implementation of treatment plans; and/or I have trained others in assisting inmates in individual or group counseling techniques. I have made final determinations for inmate programming required for incarcerated individuals and implemented appropriate program plans; and/or I have facilitated groups with oversight responsibility of program operations in a correctional environment; and/or I have provided individual and group counseling to offenders; and/or I have trained others in individual and group counseling techniques for special populations; and/or I have facilitated a group for inmates with adjustment issues associated with special population membership such as trauma, physical or cognitive disabilities or, veteran’s needs; and/or I have provided individual counseling to inmates who are members of a special population within a correctional facility. I have provided group or individual counseling to a non-correctional, special population, such as day treatment classes, or informational groups; and/or I have provided training to staff on group or individual counseling techniques; and/or I have counseled individuals with problems as woman, individual living with a disability, or veteran. None of the above. 4 The Special Population Program Coordinator must understand the nature of the disorders and needs of members of special populations to effectively plan and implement programming for the identified inmate special population.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must possess knowledge of the facts, concepts, principles and theories of human behavior and disorders/behavior problems and the associated skill based and social problems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted intake interviews of offenders in a correctional environment and developed program plans based upon the information obtained in the interviews; and/or I have performed comprehensive psycho-social evaluations on individuals that resulted in specific program plans; and/or I have performed a standardized interview to determine an individual’s referral for programming or treatment; and/or I have used structured interview techniques and provided a provisional determination of an inmate’s needs making recommendations for appropriate programming. I have performed routine screenings for referrals to appropriate program or treatment settings; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine individual’s needs for support services such as medical, disability, veteran or housing services; and/or I have performed routine screening to determine if medical or psychological testing is required. I have used a standardized interview to make a provisional determination of an inmate’s needs; and/or I have formally evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness of admittance into a program; and/or I have, from a psycho-social interview, developed appropriate program plans for individual assessed. None of the above. 5 The Special Population Program Coordinator must be able to demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive reports for program planning, progress reports, individual program summaries and referrals for reentry programming.&nbsp; These reports may be included with correspondence to the Judiciary, United States Probation, Veteran&rsquo;s Administration officials, community volunteers or stakeholders, Residential Reentry Centers, or Community Treatment Service providers.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted staff in preparing a comprehensive assessment for inclusion in a final report; and/or I have prepared assessments under the supervision of another individual; and/or I have written program treatment plans for review; and/or I have summarized psycho-social histories based on self-reported information. I have prepared clinical/program intake interviews with a summary of the interview outcome for supervisor’s review; and/or I have completed summaries of psycho-social histories; and/or I have completed draft treatment/program plans; and/or I have documented programming/clinical notes resulting from treatment screenings. I have prepared comprehensive psycho-social assessments which determined specific programming or treatment needs of individuals; and/or I have developed treatment plans; and/or I have prepared forensic reports; and/or I have developed and prepared discharge summaries for the court and/or other community supervision or treatment agency. None of the above. 6 The Special Population Program Coordinator employed by the Federal Bureau of Prisons must possess strong verbal communication skills in order to provide individual and group counseling sessions to inmates, interview and perform assessments of inmates entering into programming, and explain program requirements, procedures and program plans with offenders.&nbsp; He/she also needs to present programming to the institution administration and staff and to community coalitions and stakeholders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided oral presentations to staff and facilitated process groups; and/or I have provided clinical supervision and individual therapy in a counseling center; and/or I have taught psycho-educational classes and facilitated process groups for a special population. I have shared ideas with staff and others to enhance communication skills; and/or I have facilitated process groups; and/or I have, under supervision, led a group session regarding the needs of a special population including female offenders, individuals with disabilities, or veterans. I have participated in a workgroup related to a special population including female offenders, individuals with disabilities, or veterans; and/or I have conducted research for an educational seminar; and/or I have participated in an informative group meeting in counseling skills. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).