Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The SIS Technician must possess the ability to tactfully and effectively communicate and interact with numerous law enforcement agencies, management officials, other agency officials, co-workers and the public. They&nbsp;are required to provide guidance to co-workers, and possess the ability to conduct or exchange investigative research and to assist in the coordination of information exchange between law enforcement and correctional communities.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered administrative or technical questions from management; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to assist supervisors in completing projects in a timely manner; and/or I have coordinated efforts with internal and external offices to complete assignments; and/or I have assisted in resolving minor complaints impacting work areas; and/or I have trained lower level subordinates and/or staff on procedures/policies. I have screened calls for staff; and/or I have assisted staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on non-technical issues; and/or I have participated in staff meetings by providing input on issues impacting the operations of the office; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the public or employees; and/or I have trained lower level subordinates in routine office procedures; and/or I have coordinated efforts with internal offices to complete assignments. I have researched issues and/or provided responses to inquiries on technical issues; and/or I have independently received calls and take appropriate action rather than forwarding caller to others for assistances; and/or I have developed and implemented a system which ensured supervisors are aware of projects/assignments prior to due date and tracked to ensure they were completed on time; and/or I have successfully coordinated efforts with internal and external offices to complete non-routine assignments; and/or I have researched and gathered information on a technical topic and advised others in a group setting or meeting; and/or I have resolved complaints/discrepancies involving work areas and another section/division/3rd party. None of the above. 3 The SIS Technician is required to compose technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects related to investigations conducted by the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings and other gatherings, as instructed; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written routine office procedures; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for others to proofread/edit. I have prepared confidential/sensitive correspondence for use by other governmental agencies; and/or I have prepared articles to be published in newsletters; and/or I have compiled, designed and prepared handouts and informational material to be used at a conference; and/or I have prepared minutes in final format for executive level meetings. I have prepared non-sensitive correspondence in conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted staff members in gathering and compiling information and preparing a congressional response; and/or I have independently prepared recurring reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature. None of the above. 4 The SIS Technician must possess the ability to analyze sensitive and non-sensitive information and make recommendations for consideration regarding investigative techniques, evidence gathering methods, and&nbsp;data collections.&nbsp;They must also possess the ability to identify problems and recommend viable solutions to situations encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed audit directives and provided recommendations to supervisor that when implemented, improved procedures and ensured policy compliance; and/or I have formulated internal review or audit procedures which improved accuracy and timeliness of required transactions and reports; and/or I have maintained accountability of evidence obtained in investigative cases which was subsequently presented for prosecution in federal court; and/or I have conducted audits on the inmate urine and alcohol programs to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed urine test results and appropriately noted/documented any apparent trends; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed telephone calling patterns of inmates and initiated corrective action when required; and/or I have participated in a Program Review or comparable external audits of SIS Investigative Office procedures. I have reviewed recurring transactions by analyzing background documents for accuracy and completeness prior to processing; and/or I have consulted appropriate automated systems manual to complete required transactions; and/or I have assisted in reviewing records and requested required documentation and/or information to complete file. I have participated in an operational review or comparable external audit by utilizing established guidelines and provided recommendations for corrective action to problem areas to team leader/Reviewer in Charge; and/or I have reviewed records for completeness of files and obtained information/data needed to complete record; and/or I have corrected errors in reports, transactions or computations by reviewing related background documentation; and/or I have located discrepancies between records, reports or transactions and notified appropriate staff member for corrective action. None of the above. 5 The SIS Technician must possess thorough understanding of advanced computerized database systems.&nbsp;They are&nbsp;required to conduct searches to retrieve a variety of information requested by the SIS/SIA.&nbsp; They are required to utilize a variety of automated programs and systems to effectively accomplish&nbsp;thier assignments.&nbsp;&nbsp;They must possess knowledge and comprehensive ability to prepare documents, reports, spreadsheets, or other forms of automated information as the position dictates.&nbsp; In addition,&nbsp;they are&nbsp;required to be proficient in common office equipment, such as typewriter, fax machine, recorder, copy machine, and scanner.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained an established database to track information required by supervisor; and/or I have developed general automated presentations; and/or I have trained other staff on a new automated process; and/or I have experienced in using current word processing applications; and/or I have utilized a typewriter or computer to create file labels; and/or I have utilized basic functions of a copy machine; and/or I have faxed routine documents. I have independently developed a database spreadsheet to track information, which was adopted for use by other offices; and/or I have developed interactive presentations using slides, graphs, pictures, and charts; and/or I have sought out by others for technical advice and guidance on the uses of a variety of word processing software; and/or I have transcribed minutes or information using a recorder; and/or I have used copy photography or evidence photography to maintain evidence; and/or I have tested, labeled, handled, packaged and submitted evidence to Federal Crime Labs in accordance with policy and procedures; and/or I have scanned documents into electronic formats; and/or I have reproduced/edited video tapes of use of force incidents or fights between inmates onto video tapes and/or compact disks; and/or I have copied mass quantities of information using color, sort and staple functions. I have retrieved information from an established database; and/or I have successfully completed a training course for a Micro soft Word Video presentations software; and/or I have prepared basic documents and/or forms using a word processing application. None of the above. 6 The SIS Technician must possess thorough understanding of agency manuals, Program Statements, and investigation methodology. They&nbsp;must possess the ability to perform investigative research within prescribed guidelines and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered general program areas questions received; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with Department of Justice/Bureau of Prisons policy; and/or I have discussed routine procedure with newly incarcerated inmate. I have responded to internal inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have utilized available resources to maintain currency of policy and procedures; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others to ensure policy requirements were adhered to. I have researched complicated issues and determined appropriate course of action; and/or I have resolved a noted discrepancy and initiated corrective action in order to comply with policy requirements; and/or I have participated in program or operational review of a specific area/department within a correctional facility; and/or I have responded to external inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have monitored vital functions in accordance with Program Review guidelines. None of the above. 7 The SIS Technician receives inventory and maintains all pieces of evidence collected throughout the institution which are involved in inmate investigative cases. Additionally, they assist in the preparation of investigative cases for presentation to the Disciplinary Hearing Officer, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and&nbsp;Assistant U.S. Attorney.&nbsp; As the Urinalysis Coordinator, they&nbsp;are responsible for ensuring all random, suspect and community urine tests are completed in compliance with governing policy.&nbsp; To effectively perform the requirements of the position, they&nbsp;must possess the ability to collect, organize and maintain a variety of sensitive, confidential materials, evidence, and information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have inventoried and maintained evidence; and/or I have maintained and accounted for files in accordance with the SIS manual; and/or I have established and maintained a tracking system for the drug testing programs; and/or I have organized case files presented to the DHO/FBI/AUSA; and/or I have overseen and handled the day to day operation of the inmate urine surveillance program to include documentation for all tests for community, random and suspect testing; and/or I have recorded all urine test results immediately upon receipt from the lab; and/or I have compiled monthly test results and reported the number of positive results in each test category; and/or I have overseen and monitored the suspect and random alcohol testing program for the inmate population. I have maintained a tracking system for the drug testing program; and/or I have maintained files and evidence in accordance with office procedures; and/or I have collected a variety of information as requested by supervisor; and/or I have presented requested information in an organized fashion. I have performed routine filing and maintenance of records; and/or I have prioritized incoming information and requested assistance when needed to complete assigned tasks; and/or I have assisted a higher level employee is collecting information and preparing documentation for presentation. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).