Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 4 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 5 Which of the following BEST describes your background in developing and implementing program management standards? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing and implementing program management standards. I have education or training in developing and implementing program management standards, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely developed and implemented program management standards. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed and implemented program management standards, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing and implementing program management standards. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the Job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 7 Select the response that BEST describes your experience presenting controversial findings tactfully to agency senior managers: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 8 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience resolving conflicting points of view? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required a great deal of sensitivity to different personal styles and the ability to defuse high emotions; where long-standing conflict had eroded trust and cooperation between individuals. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints and/or resolving complex and controversial issues as part of a team effort. 9 What type of analyses have you performed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Articulated the important points of the material and draw conclusions. Reviewed various source material and identify inconsistencies. Identified the relationships between specific points and larger concepts. Used quantitative methods. Used qualitative methods. Identified relationships between points, issues, or events. Inferred possible outcomes derived from given information. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 11 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience developing, recommending and implementing a collection policy in conformance with applicable Federal regulations? Answer to this question is required I have education or formal training in developing, recommending and implementing a collection policy in conformance with applicable Federal regulations. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have experience developing, recommending and implementing a collection policy in conformance with applicable Federal regulations. I work with others to develop, recommend and implement policies related to specific programs and management situations / issues. I have experience developing, recommending and implementing a collection policy in conformance with applicable Federal regulations. I typically work independently to develop, recommend and implement these policies. I have experience developing, recommending and implementing complex collection policies in conformance with applicable Federal regulations. I apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 12 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience solving problems? Answer to this question is required I have experience solving problems that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience solving problems that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience solving problems that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience and/or training in problem solving, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. None of the above. 13 Select the response that BEST describes your experience collecting materials from a variety of sources and arranging a number of unrelated facts in a logical order in anticipation of preparing a response: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 14 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the Above Apply. 15 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 16 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 17 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 18 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 19 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 20 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that meet the organization`s priorities, objectives, and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on projects / assignments of high priority. Assignments are mostly completed within assigned deadlines. I am proficient at managing multiple tasks / assignments within a designated time period. I am skilled with adjusting my time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of the new or unexpected work. I am proficient at negotiating schedules, deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with management. None of the above. Grade: 13 Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 4 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 5 Which of the following BEST describes your background in developing and implementing program management standards? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing and implementing program management standards. I have education or training in developing and implementing program management standards, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely developed and implemented program management standards. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed and implemented program management standards, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing and implementing program management standards. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the Job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 7 Select the response that BEST describes your experience presenting controversial findings tactfully to agency senior managers: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 8 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience resolving conflicting points of view? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required a great deal of sensitivity to different personal styles and the ability to defuse high emotions; where long-standing conflict had eroded trust and cooperation between individuals. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints and/or resolving complex and controversial issues as part of a team effort. 9 What type of analyses have you performed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Articulated the important points of the material and draw conclusions. Reviewed various source material and identify inconsistencies. Identified the relationships between specific points and larger concepts. Used quantitative methods. Used qualitative methods. Identified relationships between points, issues, or events. Inferred possible outcomes derived from given information. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have had training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have not had experience in performing these tasks. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 12 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience solving problems? Answer to this question is required I have experience solving problems that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience solving problems that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience solving problems that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience and/or training in problem solving, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. None of the above. 13 Select the response that BEST describes your experience collecting materials from a variety of sources and arranging a number of unrelated facts in a logical order in anticipation of preparing a response: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 14 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the Above Apply. 15 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 16 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 17 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 18 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 19 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 20 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 21 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I work on multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflict with the assistance of supervisor or senior employee. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflicts independently. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 22 Which of the following project management tools / techniques do you prefer to use? Answer to this question is required Delegate, manage, and monitor task completion Hands-on management of project tasks Project management software to track progress Solicit periodic feedback from stakeholders Negotiate project funding and timelines None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 Please list the position, Bureau, and Office you are applying to using your CTAP selection priority. Available positions are listed in this vacancy announcement. If you would like to be considered for all positions, please state "I want to be considered for all positions." Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.