Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as: (1) Working with project managers, engineers, and construction personnel to develop, review, monitor, analyze design, and maintain construction schedules for building projects; (2) Serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for construction project contracts; and (3) Using Oracle Primavera to perform various project scheduling activities for multi-phase construction projects.&nbsp; 2 Which certifications, registrations, coursework or degrees do you hold? Answer to this question is required A Registered Architect (RA) certification A Professional Engineering (PE) certification A Historic Preservation degree (Bachelors, Masters or PHd) Historic Preservation course work A Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) A Certified Construction Manager (CCM) A Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification A Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification AACE International (AACEi) Certification Contracting Officer (CO) Certification Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) Certification None of the above 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience with construction project schedules? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing construction project schedules. I have completed coursework or training regarding construction project schedules, but do not have on the job experience. I have reviewed construction project schedules for reasonable timeframes and milestones. I have suggested minor changes to construction project timeframes or milestones following my review of the schedule. I have suggested major changes to construction project timeframes or milestones following my review of the schedule and a comparison of the current project with similar, completed projects. I have independently developed construction project timeframes or milestones. 4 Do you&nbsp;have experience using Oracle Primavera to perform project scheduling activities for multi-phase construction projects? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 5 How many years of hands on experience do you have managing construction projects utilizing Primavera or other computerized scheduling software products? Answer to this question is required I have less than 1 year of hands on experience managing construction projects utilizing Primavera or other computerized scheduling software products. I have 1-2 years of hands on experience managing construction projects utilizing Primavera or other computerized scheduling software products. I have 2-3 years of hands on experience managing construction projects utilizing Primavera or other computerized scheduling software products. I have 3-5 years of hands on experience managing construction projects utilizing Primavera or other computerized scheduling software products. I have more than 5 years of experience managing construction projects utilizing Primavera or other computerized scheduling software products. I do not have hands on experience managing construction projects utilizing Primavera or other computerized scheduling software products. 6 Which&nbsp;project scheduling activities have you performed using Oracle Primavera or equivalent project scheduling software? Answer to this question is required Maintain progress schedule for multi-phase construction projects. Manage contract costs, to include invoice amounts and payments. Plan, identify, and manage resources for multi-phase construction projects. Implement construction project controls. Develop construction project timelines. None of the above 7 Do you have experience using Oracle Primavera to pay contractors via cost loaded schedules? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous construction projects. Established timelines and milestones for a construction project. Closed out construction projects. Monitored a construction project progress against a bar chart and critical path method schedule. Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance. Resolved construction contractor performance issues. Managed client expectations. None of the above 9 Do you have experience with Critical Path Method (CPM) scheduling and/or related construction scheduling systems, commercial project scheduling software and specialized construction scheduling software systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 10 Have you managed the design and construction of several active building projects simultaneously? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which response best describes your highest level of experience organizing and prioritizing construction tasks for commercial projects? Answer to this question is required I have sought input from others to prioritize construction tasks. I have gathered requirements for construction tasks on a project, organized them logically, and determined their level of importance for project completion. I have developed priorities, quality checks, and deadlines for construction tasks across multiple projects to ensure that each project was completed on time and on budget. None of the above. 12 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing construction contracts (i.e., scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education or experience managing construction contracts. I have training or education related to construction management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a construction contract. I have managed all phases of a construction contract with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a construction contract independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous construction contracts. 13 Select the response that best describes your experience monitoring construction work for compliance with contract specifications. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience monitoring construction work for compliance with contract specifications. I have completed coursework on techniques for monitoring construction work, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have monitored construction work for compliance with contract specifications and reported deficiencies to a senior employee. I have independently monitored construction work and requested that contractors take action to comply with contract specifications. 14 Do you have&nbsp;experience with Quality Control and Quality Assurance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which tasks&nbsp;have you performed for quality control and quality assurance of construction projects? Answer to this question is required Performed inspections Reviewed construction material test reports Conducted site visits Performed surveillance of construction or installation work None of the above 16 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving construction project problems (e.g., schedule delays, quality of contractor work). Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving construction project problems. I have monitored construction projects for problems with schedule, scope, or contractor performance and reported problems to a senior employee for resolution. I have identified potential problems with construction projects and discussed potential solutions with a senior employee prior to taking corrective action. I have independently prioritized and resolved problems with construction projects. 17 I have been&nbsp;responsible for negotiating and settling modifications, claims and disputes on projects. Answer to this question is required True 17.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. False 18 Which construction documents have you interpreted to inspect or monitor the progress of construction work? Answer to this question is required Shop drawings Architect notes Equipment specifications Building system schematics Change orders Design plans Engineering specifications Architectural renderings Construction material reports or test results (e.g., concrete) Construction work schedules Project cost estimates Project budgets None of the above 19 Which documents have you written to monitor construction projects? Answer to this question is required Critical path reports Earned value reports Cash flow reports 30-90 day look ahead reports Completed activity reports Float reports None of the above 20 Select which types of documents you have prepared/written for construction projects: Answer to this question is required Statements of Work Construction specifications Technical reports Meeting minutes Correspondence and letters Instructional manuals or guidebooks Cost estimates None of the above 21 Have you ever briefed and/or provided presentations to upper-level management and stakeholders on the status of a construction project controls you managed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 With which construction project stakeholders have you interacted? Answer to this question is required Trades / Crafts workers Architects Engineers Contractors Government Executives Elected Officials None of the above 23 For which purposes have you interacted with construction project stakeholders? Answer to this question is required To clarify project scope, timeframes, or costs To provide guidance on regulatory/code compliance To resolve conflicting interests To meet project milestones To discuss the impact of changes or delays To discuss construction deficiencies To request changes in construction specifications To negotiate change order cost To resolve disagreements about construction standards None of the above 24 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 24.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.