Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements describes your level of experience with planning, reporting and forecasting strategic planning processes within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have designed and implemented an interdepartmental, collaborative planning framework across an organization that resulted in a five-year program goal plan. I have worked with senior level managers in an organization to conduct long-range planning and to develop reports and forecasting methods. I have experience working with senior level management to establish goals, objectives and targets. I have experience in developing long-range planning goals and objectives as a member of a team of individuals within an organization. I do not have experience with developing planning, reporting and forecasting process within an organization. I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Identify your highest level of work experience in budgeting and financial planning for facility maintenance and repair programs, or specific repair, renovation and/or construction projects. Answer to this question is required I have advanced work experience in providing senior management on budgeting and financial planning of maintenance and repair projects and programs I have work experience that demonstrates the ability to handle complex maintenance and repair budgeting/planning issues I have one or more years of full time experience in budgeting and/or planning for preventive and predictive maintenance and repair projects. I have formal training or education in financial management techniques; however I have not yet applied this ability in work situations None of the above 4 Which of the following activities related to project management have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared and managed project schedules, task lists, and plans. I have conducted project reviews. I have prepared and monitored budgets. I have used analysis to keep projects on budget and schedule. I have prepared statements/scopes of work for the purpose of receiving contract proposals. I have negotiated and tracked complicated budgets and schedules. I have managed multi-disciplinary teams. I have prepared/managed request for proposals and request for quotes. I have developed and tracked completion of work assignments for project team members. I have completed training in the use of project management software. I have completed formal project management training. None of the above. 5 Which of the following activities related to project and/or program management have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed complex projects I have conducted project or program reviews I have prepared and managed project/program schedules and plans I have used analysis to keep projects/programs on budget and schedule I have managed multi-disciplinary teams I have managed multi-year projects involving both science and government partners I have prepared/managed request for proposals and request for quotes I have developed and tracked completion of work assignments for project team members None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and justifying budget requests? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not developed or justified budget requests. I have receive post-high school instruction and/or training in these functions, but have not performed them on the job. I have prepared budget request and related supporting documentation. I have monitored and tracked obligations and expenditures for organizational functions. I have prepared estimates for projects or activites. I have developed budgets and requested at the office level which covered salaries, expenses, supplies and equipment. I have formulated and revised annual budget estimates for scientific and support activities. I have developed and justified budget requests for a large program or organization, which are funded by standard funding means. I have compared and contrasted historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to anticipate needs for funds or reprogramming actions. I have developed and justified budget requests for large programs or organizations, which are funded by a mixture of sources. For example, appropriations, fee for services, working capital. I have not performed any of the above functions. 7 Do you have experience leading work teams which included assigning work, setting employee priorities, evaluating employee performance, rewarding employees, resolving employee complaints, and effecting disciplinary actions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following statements best describes your education, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles while supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, management or project management, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in leadership skills, supervision, management or project management. I have education, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have education, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have education, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.