Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to communicate effectively in writing.** Following the basic rules of spelling, grammar, punctuation, and style for print materials, prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products such as: 1) book-length works, including main narratives; 2) prefaces and/or introductions; 3) acknowledgements; 4) captions; 5) credits; bibliographies, indices, and/or other back matter; 6) reviews; and 7) memoranda as well as other informal correspondence. This included tailoring the tone, level of diction, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the context and needs of the audience. Answer to this question is required Meeting deadlines, wrote a variety of publications, including SIX (6) of the above in a professional publications and production setting. Systematically ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work occasionally required editing by peers or supervisors. Meeting deadlines, wrote a variety of publications, including FIVE (5) of the above in a professional publications and production setting. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work occasionally required editing by supervisors. Meeting deadlines, wrote a variety of publications including FOUR (4) of the above in a professional publications or production setting. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work regularly required editing by peers or supervisors. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to plan and manage projects.** Demonstrated experience in planning, coordinating and implementation of projects. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) identified the topic and scope, 2) developed the project plan, 3) established and defined deliverables and milestones, 4) gathered the project requirements and stakeholder expectations, 5) participated in discussions to work toward solutions, 6) maintained a project schedule and evaluated project progress; and 7) produced on-time deliverables. Answer to this question is required As a team member, completed a variety of projects that had organization or agency-wide impact and, in doing so, INDEPENDENTLY or WITH MINIMAL SUPERVISION, conducted FIVE (5) to SEVEN (7) of the above tasks. As a team member, completed a variety of projects that had organization or agency-wide impact and, in doing so, INDEPENDENTLY or WITH MINIMAL SUPERVISION, conducted THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. As a team member, completed a variety of projects that had organization or agency-wide impact and, in doing so, INDEPENDENTLY or WITH MINIMAL SUPERVISION, conducted TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of reference sources and research techniques.** Demonstrated knowledge of utilizing reference sources and research techniques to gather information, synthesize, consolidate, and report results in written materials for publishing print. Answer to this question is required Used knowledge of reference sources and research techniques to write articles for a magazine, newspaper and/or educational publications. Used knowledge of reference sources and research techniques to write papers for academic projects, such as research papers, thesis, or proposals. Used knowledge of reference sources and research techniques to prepare a variety of documents including business communications and public relations. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to utilize computer technology. Utilized the following computer technology in editorial production: 1) word-processing (e.g., Word), 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 3) email, 4) electronic calendar, 5) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint), and 6) content management systems (e.g., WordPress). Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL of the above computer technology to provide support to an organization. Routinely used FIVE of the computer technologies listed above to provide support to an organization. In a scholarly environment, routinely used FOUR of the computer technologies listed above. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).