Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Toggle navigation About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described below. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described below. Experience conducting protective surveys and performing protective operations; assisting in planning, organizing assessments and preparing investigative reports; and applying Federal rules, government laws, regulations, and policies to criminal procedures. 2 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Are you eligible to receive and maintain a current Top Secret clearance upon appointment? Answer to this question is required True False 4 Have you ever been convicted of domestic violence? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have at least one year of law enforcement experience with general arrest authority? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you graduated from a Federal, Military, or State law enforcement academy? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have more than a five year break since your last law enforcement job? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 This position requires the incumbent to spend a significant portion of time in a travel status, are you willing to travel up to 75% of the time, often on short notice? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 How did you first learn about this vacancy?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required A job search platform (not USAJobs) 1.1 Which platform?&nbsp; Handshake Indeed Glassdoor LinkedIn Other Referral from a FERC employee 1.1 What is the name of the employee?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. University or Professional Career Fair 1.1 What was the name of the University or Sponsored event?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. FERC Careers on Social Media 1.1 Which social media page?&nbsp; LinkedIn X (Formerly Twitter) Facebook Instagram FERC Website (www.ferc.gov) Email from a FERC Recruiter USAJobs search Other 1.1 Based on your selection please provide more details.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you visited FERC career social media platforms (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 If yes, select the pages visited: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn No 3 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 4 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 11 Select the answer that best describes your experience directly interacting with senior leadership of a federal agency, corporate company, or, other high level executives. For the purpose of this question, experience includes: providing verbal briefings, written products or advising roles that materially shape the decisions of senior leadership. Answer to this question is required I have no prior experience in this task I have performed limited briefings or written products under close supervision I have experience performing these tasks as part of a team under supervision I have independently and routinely advised senior leadership on issues or matters of importance 12 Select all of the professional certifications that you hold: Answer to this question is required FLETC Criminal Investigator Training Program (CITP) FLETC Uniformed Police Training Program (UPTP) FLETC Protective Operations Training Program (PSOTP) Federal, State, Local, or Tribal Police academy Other law enforcement certification None of the above 13 Select the answer that best describes your experience in performing executive protection. Answer to this question is required I have no experience with executive protection I have performed executive protection but under close supervision I have experience performing executive protection as part of a team under supervision I have performed and supervised executive protection functions independently and as part of a team. I have supervised executive protection operations in the field to include motorcade operations 14 Describe your experience in conducing site advances in support of protective operations Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task I have supported others whose responsibility it was to conduct this task I have completed this task under supervision as part of a team I have performed this task on my own for approval by the agent in charge 15 Select the answer that best describes your experience in coordinating site security for Executive Protection to include local, Federal, State, or other protective details? Answer to this question is required I have no experience conducting this task I have limited experience in conducting this task, usually as part of a team, under close supervision I have independently performed this task routinely, often with multiple protection details and law enforcement to deconflict and coordinate security efforts 16 Select the answer that best describes your experience directly interacting with Executive Protection principals. This should include making recommendations for security, briefing movements, conducting motorcades and other related tasks. Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task I have limited experience performing this task, as part of a protection detail, usually under close supervision I have performed this task as part of a security detail as the senior agent I have independently interacted with heads of agencies, making substantive security recommendations and plans to the principal 17 Describe your experience in producing risk assessments in support of protective operations Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task I have supported others whose responsibility it was to conduct risk assessments I have produced risk products under supervision I have created professional risk products on my own for approval by the agent in charge 18 As part of your regular duties, have you conducted liaison with other Federal, State or local agencies to ascertain the most current risks and threats to principals. Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Do you have experience coordinating multi-modal travel operations for protectees? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).