Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education or experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have graduate education or an internship which is directly related to the work of the position which meets the specialized experience requirement. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience includes: performing work directly related to construction; or responsible for interpreting plans & specifications, inspecting materials and workmanship, and insuring adherence to safety requirements; or supervisor in construction work, responsible for interpreting plans & specifications, inspecting workmanship for adherence to plans and specifications. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following best reflects your level of involvement performing building inspections during construction or renovation? Answer to this question is required I have performed inspections as a member of an inspection team. I have led a team performing inspections. I have performed inspections as an individual. I have not participated in building inspections, but am willing to learn. 4 Which of the following construction phases have you participated in inspections of? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planning and design Foundation and prep-work Structure installation Electrical rough-in Plumbing rough-in Warranty turnover Occupancy and maintenance I have not participated in phases of construction 5 In which of the following environments have you applied architectural or engineering principles and techniques? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Academic studies Corporate summer job or internship Federal summer job or internship Museum facilities Scientific or laboratory facilities None of the above 6 Which of the following construction management duties do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed cross-disciplinary quality control and coordination review of construction drawings and specifications for design projects with complex architecture and engineering scope. I have reviewed construction drawings, specifications, calculations, diagrams, etc. for conformance with architectural/engineering professional best practices, technical correctness, code compliance, and conformance with project programmatic requirements for building design and construction. I have performed constructability review of construction drawings and specifications. I have developed project budgets. I have resolved unique phasing requirements with relation to the renovation of occupied buildings. I have implemented historic preservation concepts relating to the renovation of major monumental public buildings and spaces of national significance. None of the above. 7 Please select the software applications in which you are proficient (Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality-capabilities). Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Database management software (e.g., Farsight, Access, Filemaker Pro, Paradox, Oracle, Open Office or SQL E-mail (e.g., Groupwise, CC Mail, Eudora, Lotus Notes, Outlook). Graphics or presentation software (e.g., Power Point, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio) Operating systems (e.g., Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS). Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus, Open Office, Quatro Pro) Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word or Corel Word Perfect) Web design software (e.g. Dreamweaver, Microsoft Expression Web 2) 8 Which of the following computer software applications do you have experience using as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Autodesk tools. Constructware, prolog or similar construction management software. BIM tools. Integrated office software (e.g. Office, Excel, PowerPoint). Photoshop. Adobe. I do not have experience with the listed software applications but I am willing to learn. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience delivering presentations? Answer to this question is required I have delivered presentations in an academic setting. I have delivered and defended a design presentation to an audience of experts or faculty in an academic setting. I have assisted with delivering a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I have independently delivered a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I do not have experience making presentations 10 Which of the following best describes your responsibilities in communicating orally with others in performing your work assignments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as principal advisor on facilities management program issues to a Division Chief (or comparable position), providing interpretations of regulations and policy, and recommending strategies to address program issues. I have negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial issues with officials of both internal and external organizations. I have provided briefings to my supervisor and/or senior management. I have represented my facility or organization in expressing operational priorities and issues to senior officials of a larger parent organization or external partners or agencies. I served as a program representative and participated in meetings to plan, coordinate, or resolve project and/or maintenance issues. I have interpreted and communicated policy and procedural information to staff having a broad range of educational levels. I have communicated disciplinary or other adverse actions to staff. I have conducted training sessions. I discuss issues with colleagues to clarify or exchange information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. 11 Which of the following demonstrate your experience communicating in a professional or customer service environment assisting diverse groups. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Museum professionals Administrative staff Clerical personnel Contractors General public Resident Engineers Construction Management staff None of the above 12 Which of the following tasks have you performed as they relate to construction project schedules? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created construction schedules I have read and followed construction schedules I have evaluated construction schedules for logic errors and time line conflicts I have managed construction schedules keeping projects on time I have analyzed and updated construction schedules based on project progress I do not have experience with construction project schedules 13 Which of the following types of written communication have you created or reviewed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Edited specifications. Submittals. Position paper. Components of technical reports. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience presenting ideas clearly and concisely in writing? Answer to this question is required I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in written communication. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in written communication, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: 12 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education or experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience includes: performing work directly related to construction; or responsible for interpreting plans & specifications, inspecting materials and workmanship, and insuring adherence to safety requirements; or supervisor in construction work, responsible for interpreting plans & specifications, inspecting workmanship for adherence to plans and specifications. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Have you served as a Contracting Officer with signature authority in the Federal Government? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best reflects your level of involvement performing building inspections during construction or renovation? Answer to this question is required I have performed inspections as a member of an inspection team. I have led a team performing inspections. I have performed inspections as an individual. I have not participated in building inspections, but am willing to learn. 5 Which of the following construction phases have you participated in inspections of? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planning and design Foundation and prep-work Structure installation Electrical rough-in Plumbing rough-in Warranty turnover Occupancy and maintenance I have not participated in phases of construction 6 In which of the following environments have you applied architectural or engineering principles and techniques? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Academic studies Corporate summer job or internship Federal summer job or internship Museum facilities Scientific or laboratory facilities None of the above 7 Which of the following construction management duties do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed cross-disciplinary quality control and coordination review of construction drawings and specifications for design projects with complex architecture and engineering scope. I have reviewed construction drawings, specifications, calculations, diagrams, etc. for conformance with architectural/engineering professional best practices, technical correctness, code compliance, and conformance with project programmatic requirements for building design and construction. I have performed constructability review of construction drawings and specifications. I have developed project budgets. I have resolved unique phasing requirements with relation to the renovation of occupied buildings. I have implemented historic preservation concepts relating to the renovation of major monumental public buildings and spaces of national significance. None of the above. 8 Please select the software applications in which you are proficient (Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality-capabilities). Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Database management software (e.g., Farsight, Access, Filemaker Pro, Paradox, Oracle, Open Office or SQL E-mail (e.g., Groupwise, CC Mail, Eudora, Lotus Notes, Outlook). Graphics or presentation software (e.g., Power Point, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio) Operating systems (e.g., Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS). Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus, Open Office, Quatro Pro) Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word or Corel Word Perfect) Web design software (e.g. Dreamweaver, Microsoft Expression Web 2) 9 Which of the following computer software applications do you have experience using as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Autodesk tools. Constructware, prolog or similar construction management software. BIM tools. Integrated office software (e.g. Office, Excel, PowerPoint). Photoshop. Adobe. I do not have experience with the listed software applications but I am willing to learn. 10 Which of the following best describes your competency using computer software applications (scheduling, estimating, contract/project administration, facility management, property management, etc.) that are commonly used in the budgeting, maintenance, project development, project or maintenance planning, design and execution of facility management, or related construction projects? Answer to this question is required I have complete working knowledge of standard project management computer applications and have extensive experience in their use in every phase of project work. I have a working knowledge of basic project management computer applications, but have not used them heavily in my previous work. I have limited training and experience using basic scheduling and estimating computer applications and have only used them with the guidance of a supervisor. I have had formal training or experience using project-related computer software applications. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience delivering presentations? Answer to this question is required I have delivered presentations in an academic setting. I have delivered and defended a design presentation to an audience of experts or faculty in an academic setting. I have assisted with delivering a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I have independently delivered a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I do not have experience making presentations 12 Which of the following best describes your responsibilities in communicating orally with others in performing your work assignments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as principal advisor on facilities management program issues to a Division Chief (or comparable position), providing interpretations of regulations and policy, and recommending strategies to address program issues. I have negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial issues with officials of both internal and external organizations. I have provided briefings to my supervisor and/or senior management. I have represented my facility or organization in expressing operational priorities and issues to senior officials of a larger parent organization or external partners or agencies. I served as a program representative and participated in meetings to plan, coordinate, or resolve project and/or maintenance issues. I have interpreted and communicated policy and procedural information to staff having a broad range of educational levels. I have communicated disciplinary or other adverse actions to staff. I have conducted training sessions. I discuss issues with colleagues to clarify or exchange information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. 13 Which of the following demonstrate your experience communicating in a professional or customer service environment assisting diverse groups. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Museum professionals Administrative staff Clerical personnel Contractors General public Resident Engineers Construction Management staff None of the above 14 Which of the following tasks have you performed as they relate to construction project schedules? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created construction schedules I have read and followed construction schedules I have evaluated construction schedules for logic errors and time line conflicts I have managed construction schedules keeping projects on time I have analyzed and updated construction schedules based on project progress I do not have experience with construction project schedules 15 Which of the following types of written communication have you created or reviewed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Edited specifications. Submittals. Position paper. Components of technical reports. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience presenting ideas clearly and concisely in writing? Answer to this question is required I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in written communication. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in written communication, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.