Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience related to the minimum requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a full 4-year degree in auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. I have a combination of education and experience which include at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. Additionally, I have a certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination. I have a combination of education and experience which include at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. My education and experience are not defined in one of the above choices. 2 GS-15 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service and have experience conducting and monitoring performance and/or financial audits in accordance with government auditing standards. I do not possess the experience described above. 3 Check all that applies related to your ability to independently manage your audit workload. Answer to this question is required I have managed evaluations with fluctuating priorities. I have managed evaluations with changing conditions or unexpected obstacles. I have managed evaluations with heavy workloads while under tight deadlines. I have implemented new plans, ideas, and set goals for assigned evaluations/tasks. I have directed high performance evaluations teams. I have managed evaluations in time sensitive work environments. I have managed or completed work on audits of financial management systems and programs. None of the above. 4 In the responses below, select all that apply regarding your knowledge of government auditing standards, procedures, and practices for conducting complex financial and performance audits involving government programs, functions, and systems. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, I have used government auditing standards, procedures and practices to conduct complex audits involving government programs, functions, and systems. My knowledge of government auditing standards, procedures and practices has allowed me to provide insight, mentoring, training, and teaching to others. I have participated in an individual Peer-Review of another audit organization. I have participated in an internal quality control review of individual audits on segments of my own organization. None of the above. 5 [52821] In the responses below, select all that apply to your experience in planning, coordinating, conducting and managing performance audits conducted in accordance with Yellow Book Standards. Answer to this question is required I have supervised audits with nationwide program implications. I have supervised audit staff at multiple locations. I have supervised audits that have received CIGIE awards, Departmental awards and/or similar recognition. I have supervised more than one audit at a time. I have supervised audits of state or local government and/or nonprofit organizations. None of the above. 6 Check all that applies related to your experience in producing written products and analyses for internal and external audiences. Answer to this question is required I have written complex reports presenting the results or my reviews or analyses. I have written briefings. I have written memoranda discussing complex issues. I have written congressional testimony. I have supervised the development of audit reports, briefings or testimony. I have edited evaluation reports, briefings or testimony. I have trained others on the preparation of reports, briefings or testimony. None of the above. 7 In the responses below, select all that apply with your experience in orally communicating complex audits issues and concepts. Answer to this question is required I have presented complex issues and concepts to executives outside of my organization. I have presented complex issues and concepts to executives within my organization. I have supervised employees who present complex issues and concepts. I have made formal presentations and speeches to professional organizations or in a classroom setting. I have testified before congressional committees. None of the above. 8 Regarding my skill in communicating interpersonally information related to audit findings, including making presentations to diverse groups including high-ranking management officials in Federal, and/or private sector organizations: Answer to this question is required I have orally justified controversial decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. I have delivered formal presentations or training sessions concerning accounting, auditing, or financial information. I have persuaded program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to follow recommended courses of action. I have participated in meetings to discuss audit plans, present findings, and resolve material audit problems. I have provided advice to managers on revised accounting program operations, financial policies, and regulatory requirements. I have recommended action to more adequately illustrate the reconciliation of financial and accounting data or to correct inaccuracies. I have recommended remedial action to correct existing or potential problems. None of the above. 9 In the responses below, select all that apply regarding your experience as a supervisor. Answer to this question is required I have actively participated in the recruitment and selection a diverse workforce. I have fostered high standards of ethics. I have developed strategies to maximize employee potential. I have developed and monitored performance plans. I have resolved conflicts among my employees. I have recognized staff contributions. I have resolved complaints from employees. None of the above. 10 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Developing, updating and executing portions of a project plan Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing work for technical adequacy and completeness Ensuring timelines and milestones are met Resolving personnel conflicts, differences or problems that have arisen in the work unit Coaching and mentoring individuals / team members to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implemented steps to maintain and improve morale None of the above 11 I have performed the following activities to plan and organize work to meet goals and objectives: (select all that apply) Answer to this question is require. Answer to this question is required Prioritized multiple assignments or tasks Divided large / extended tasks into smaller components Estimated work hours required to complete tasks Estimated resource needs for specific tasks Developed and document project plans and checklists to track assignments or tasks Adjusted workload across project staff as needed Planned budget requirements for specific tasks None of the above 12 What types of audits have you conducted? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Financial Statement Audits pursuant to CFO Act as amended. Financial Statement Audits pursuant to the Single Audit Act. Financial Statement Audits performed according to private sector standards. Financial related audits (e.g. improper payment reviews, travel card reviews & usage, etc.), reviews of compliance with laws, regulations, and internal control requirements). Service organization controls (SOC) reviews. Other types of audits None of the above. 13 In the responses below, select all that apply regarding your working knowledge of standards, policies, and regulations. Answer to this question is required I have working knowledge of Government Auditing Standards. I have working knowledge of the GAO/ CIGIE Financial Audit Manual. I have working knowledge of the GAO Federal Information Systems Control Audit Manual. I have working knowledge of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. I have working knowledge of International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. I have working knowledge of Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. None of the above. 14 [16284] Choose the statement that best describes your demonstrated experience implementing generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to analyze major and complex diversified financial problems Answer to this question is required I have not had education, experience or training in implementing GAAP to analyze major and complex diversified financial problems. I have had education or training in implementing GAAP to analyze major and complex diversified financial problems, but have not applied it on a job. I have implemented GAAP to analyze complex accounting or financial management issues under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with guidelines and procedures. I independently implement GAAP to analyze complex accounting or financial management issues as a regular part of my job without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I independently implement GAAP to analyze complex accounting and financial management issues and have trained others in performing this duty or have been consulted by others for expert assistance in performing this duty. 15 In the responses below, check all that apply related to your experience. Answer to this question is required I have a working knowledge of Federal Aviation Administration laws, policies, and regulations. I have a working knowledge of the Federal budget preparation, justification, and execution processes. I have a working knowledge of Federal Aviation Administration's operations and capital accounts. I have planned and conducted, or participated in the planning and undertaking, of audits on major aviation issues. I have planned and conducted major reviews of Federal Aviation Administration's operation of the National Airspace System. None of the above. 16 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).