Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to communicate with various law enforcement agencies, co‑workers, Federal, State and private sector employees in order to effectively accomplish the mission of Residential Reentry.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed immediate supervisor or others on the status of workload, projects, and/or assignments; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed probation officers on case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues; and/or I have provided training to a group of participants. I have contributed pertinent information during a meeting; and/or I have assisted staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have conveyed general information to others (i.e., policy interpretation). I have participated in internal staff meetings; and/or I have conveyed non-technical information to new co-workers and others (i.e., office hours and directions; and/or I have explained office protocol to new employees). None of the above. 5 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and congressional requests and inquiries.&nbsp;Written correspondence prepared by him/her requires minimal oversight, changes, or grammatical corrections.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared form letters; and/or I have prepared an Incident Report; and/or I have prepared workload status reports; and/or I have prepared inmate release paperwork and/or furlough paperwork. I have prepared detailed summaries of investigative reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared reports and summaries with appropriate conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have prepared responses to a variety of Administrative Remedy Requests; and/or I have prepared responses to inquiries received from inmate family members or other requests for information received from outside sources. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared Inmate Request to Staff Member (Cop Out) responses; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from within the organization. None of the above. 6 The Residential Reentry Specialist is responsible for analyzing a variety of information in order to make appropriate recommendations for offenders.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in providing recommendations for inmate/client program goals; and/or I have assisted others in performing research for a project; and/or I have prepared checklists for work procedures. I have provided input on inmate programming; and/or I have assisted a team member during an internal audit to become familiar with requirements; and/or I have participated in a workshop or workgroup on analytical thinking. I have prepared recommendations based on document analysis (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Report, sentence computations, educational programming needs and statement of release); and/or I have participated as a team member in conducting perpetual audits or operational reviews; and/or I have recommended streamlined procedures for an internal process. None of the above. 7 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities for all assigned tasks/duties. He/she may occasionally act in the capacity of Residential Reentry Manager and is simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining his/her workload.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used standard operating procedures to prioritize workload; and/or I have followed supervisor’s instructions to meet required time-frames; and/or I have completed an assignment prior to deadline. I have initiated timely processing of referrals and transfer requests; and/or I have ensured all required/related steps are accomplished in completing internal assignments involving multiple disciplines; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs. I have utilized a database to track and prioritize workload; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time frames; and/or I have met internal deadlines on recurring assignments. None of the above. 8 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively interact with co‑workers, inmates, general public and outside agency personnel to assist in the Residential Reentry mission.&nbsp;He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments within the organization and external law enforcement agencies.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided advice and/or guidance to staff; and/or I have served as a union steward; and/or I have mentored newly hired employees. I have coordinated the needs of an inmate in a Special Housing Unit, the needs of a United States Probation Office, private contractor, or general inquiry from the public; and/or I have obtained requested information and relayed findings to supervisor for further consideration; and/or I have coordinated Town Hall meetings, Sick calls and Mainline. I have stood mainline and effectively communicated information to inmates; and/or I have provided public information to visitors; and/or I have collaborated with a team and others to complete a project. None of the above. 9 The Residential Reentry Specialist participates in and often makes final decisions related to case management issues.&nbsp;He/she screens institution referrals for completeness and accuracy of information and makes routine referrals to contract facilities for placement.&nbsp;He/she assists in conducting monitoring and inspections of contract facilities to determine the level of compliance with Statement of Work and published standards.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the mail manual to respond to inmate/staff inquiries regarding acceptable mail; and/or I have compiled case history information on an inmate; and/or I have prepared an inmate orientation document which explained the rules and regulations of the institution. I have prepared e-mail notification to institution staff of future inmate movement; and/or I have assisted with paperwork for an inmate transfer; and/or I have obtained and printed Central Inmate Monitoring System information. I have compiled monthly inmate release list; and/or I have prepared paperwork for an inmate transfer; and/or I have verified and entered information into the Central Inmate Monitoring Systems. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to communicate with various law enforcement agencies, co‑workers, Federal, State and private sector employees in order to effectively accomplish the mission of Residential Reentry.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented complex and/or technical information to external personnel which successfully resolved an issue or problem; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work related issues; and/or I have taught a course or presented technical information; and/or I have successfully dissipated a potentially dangerous situation by verbally calming upset individuals; and/or I have maintained a professional demeanor during adversarial encounters. I have briefed immediate supervisor or others on the status of workload, projects, and/or assignments; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed probation officers on case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues; and/or I have provided training to a group of participants. I have contributed pertinent information during a meeting; and/or I have assisted staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have conveyed general information to others (i.e., policy interpretation). None of the above. 5 The Residential Reentry Specialist is required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and congressional requests and inquiries.&nbsp;Written correspondence prepared by him/her requires minimal oversight, changes, or grammatical corrections. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared detailed summaries of investigative reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared reports and summaries with appropriate conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have prepared responses to a variety of Administrative Remedy Requests; and/or I have prepared responses to inquiries received from inmate family members or other requests for information received from outside sources. I have prepared technical reports that were used by management; and/or I have prepared correspondence/reports to be used by other law enforcement agencies; and/or I have replied to congressional inquiries; and/or I have written an article that appeared in a technical or professional newsletter. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared Inmate Request to Staff Member (Cop Out) responses; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from within the organization. None of the above. 6 The Residential Reentry Specialist is responsible for analyzing a variety of information in order to make appropriate recommendations for offenders.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed a draft Institution Supplement or Program Statement and provided recommendations that were incorporated into the final document; and/or I have recommended/implemented procedural changes as a result of change in law, after action report and management directives; and/or I have recognized a deficiency in a program and initiated corrective action; and/or I have analyzed a variety of material and developed an improved process which was subsequently implemented; and/or I have provided recommendations for improvement or corrective action based on results of an Operational Review or Program Review or a comparable external or internal audit review. I have prepared recommendations based on document analysis (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Report, sentence computations, educational programming needs and statement of release); and/or I have participated as a team member in conducting perpetual audits or operational reviews; and/or I have recommended streamlined procedures for an internal process. I have assisted in providing recommendations for inmate/client program goals; and/or I have assisted others in performing research for a project; and/or I have prepared checklists for work procedures. None of the above. 7 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities for all assigned tasks/duties. He/she may occasionally act in the capacity of Residential Reentry Manager and is simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining his/her workload.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated efforts with internal and external offices/agencies to complete assignments (i.e., coordinated bus movements, scheduled inmate transfers, processed mail and hospital trips; and/or I have exceeded internal or policy dictated deadlines on assignments; and/or I have adjusted changing priorities to complete last minute or emergency assignments; and/or I have managed shift schedules for multiple employees rotating assignments as necessary to ensure adequate coverage. I have utilized a database to track and prioritize workload; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time frames; and/or I have met internal deadlines on recurring assignments. I have initiated timely processing of referrals and transfer requests; and/or I have ensured all required/related steps are accomplished in completing internal assignments involving multiple disciplines; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs. None of the above. 8 The Residential Reentry Specialist must effectively interact with co‑workers, inmates, general public and outside agency personnel to assist in the Residential Reentry mission.&nbsp;He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments within the organization and external law enforcement agencies.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided advice and/or guidance to staff; and/or I have served as a union steward; and/or I have mentored newly hired employees. I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve issues; and/or I have provided instructions to inmates (i.e., Admission & Orientation (A&O) and mail procedures); and/or I have briefed management officials on status of projects or unusual issues encountered. I have coordinated the needs of an inmate in Special Housing Unit, the needs of a United States Probation Office, private contractor, or general inquiry from the public; and/or I have obtained requested information and relayed findings to supervisor for further consideration; and/or I have coordinated Town Hall meetings, Sick calls and Mainline. None of the above. 9 The Residential Reentry Specialist participates in and often makes final decisions related to case management issues. He/she screens institution referrals for completeness and accuracy of information and makes routine referrals to contract facilities for placement. He/she assists in conducting monitoring and inspections of contract facilities to determine the level of compliance with Statement of Work and published standards.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have compiled monthly inmate release list; and/or I have prepared paperwork for an inmate transfer; and/or I have verified and entered information into the Central Inmate Monitoring Systems. I have used the mail manual to respond to inmate/staff inquiries regarding acceptable mail; and/or I have compiled case history information on an inmate; and/or I have prepared an inmate orientation document which explained the rules and regulations of the institution. I have gathered information from new and old federal sentencing laws to resolve sentence computation problems; and/or I have prepared custody classification reports; and/or I have assisted in setting up Parole Commission dockets. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).