Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform administrative management functions for an organization.** Applies administrative management processes and techniques in a professional office setting by performing the following activities: 1) acts as a liaison for the office; 2) schedules meetings and arranges meeting logistics, agendas and background materials; 3) recommends policies and procedures to improve management effectiveness; 4) identifies operational needs; 5) applies administrative policies and researches, accesses and interprets information; 6) sets up and revises administrative systems and processes for tracking pending tasks or work activities and meeting administrative requirements; 7) drafts correspondence, recommendations, reports, and memoranda; 8) provides guidance to management on budget and procurement procedures, deadlines, and requirements; and 9) provides administrative services related to space, equipment, and security. Answer to this question is required Independently provided administrative support for an office and performed AT LEAST SIX (6) of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office and performed FIVE (5) of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office and performed FOUR (4) of the above. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to apply human resources administrative processes.** Demonstrated experience in applying human resources administrative processes such as: 1) tracking time and attendance; 2) coordinating, preparing, and monitoring personnel actions; 3) arranging staff training and travel; 4) facilitating staff on-boarding and separation tasks; 5) providing guidance on rules, regulations, and organizational policy as it relates to staffing, performance management, and other employee-related matters; and 6) providing assistance to managers in creating position descriptions and submitting performance plans, appraisals, and awards. Answer to this question is required Independently conducted FIVE (5) of the above tasks in a professional setting. Independently or under minimal supervision, conducted FOUR (4) of the above tasks in a professional or trainee setting. Independently or under minimal supervision, conducted THREE (3) of the above tasks in a professional or trainee setting. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interact collaboratively with others exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide consultation and liaison services.** The ability to work well and cooperate with others (coworkers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units). &nbsp;Exercise judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipate their current and future needs and exchange accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts internal to the workgroup or office exercising judgment and discretion and ensuring administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues by providing general information from established standards. Referred contentious situations to management and senior staff. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to utilize computer technology.** Utilized software technology to perform administrative work for an organization, including: 1) financial databases and tracking systems (e.g. Momentum, eManagement), 2) automated personnel/payroll/time and attendance systems (e.g., GovTA, EmpowHR, NFC, and Solutions Business Manager), &nbsp;3) Microsoft Office (i.e., Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint), 4) collaborative tools (i.e., SharePoint and Confluence), 5) electronic calendars (i.e., Outlook), 6) automated request and tracking systems (e.g., ServiceNow), 7) virtual meeting software (e.g., Microsoft Teams and Zoom), and 8) Internet browsers (e.g., Edge, Firefox, and Chrome). Answer to this question is required Routinely used SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an agency/organization. Routinely used FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an agency/organization. Routinely used FOUR (4) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an agency/organization. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work accomplished. &nbsp;This includes the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision planned, organized and executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Identified work objectives and determined project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, and resources required so all project goals were met. Monitored and evaluated all project activities and assignments. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities, including identifying work objectives, aspects of the project approach, steps and input required, schedules, milestones and resources required. This included identifying aspects of the work objectives and project approach and meeting deadlines and milestones established by a supervisor. With supervision, completed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Work assignments were primarily planned by supervisors. Met deadlines and accomplished work under general supervision. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation such as: &nbsp;1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) management reports, 3) notes and/or meeting minutes, 4) travel justifications, 5) procurement documentation, 6) human resources documentation, 7) training materials, 8) presentations, and 9) policies and/or standard operating procedures. &nbsp;This includes the ability to apply knowledge of the principles and techniques of writing and editing sufficient to review and analyze written products for clarity of expression, accuracy, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness. Answer to this question is required Have experience producing SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervision. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing the written products. Have experience producing FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing written products. Have experience producing FOUR (4) of the above documents in an administrative setting with supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing written products. None of the above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Grade: 11 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform administrative management functions for an organization.** Applies administrative management processes and techniques in a professional office setting by performing the following activities: 1) acts as a liaison for the office; 2) schedules meetings and arranges meeting logistics, agendas and background materials; 3) recommends policies and procedures to improve management effectiveness; 4) identifies operational needs; 5) applies administrative policies and researches, accesses and interprets information; 6) sets up and revises administrative systems and processes for tracking pending tasks or work activities and meeting administrative requirements; 7) drafts correspondence, recommendations, reports, and memoranda; 8) provides guidance to management on budget and procurement procedures, deadlines, and requirements; and 9) provides administrative services related to space, equipment, and security. Answer to this question is required Independently provided administrative support for an office and performed AT LEAST EIGHT (8) of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office and performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office and performed FIVE (5) of the above. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to apply human resources administrative processes.** Demonstrated experience in applying human resources administrative processes such as: 1) tracking time and attendance; 2) coordinating, preparing, and monitoring personnel actions; 3) arranging staff training and travel; 4) facilitating staff on-boarding and separation tasks; 5) providing guidance on rules, regulations, and organizational policy as it relates to staffing, performance management, and other employee-related matters; and 6) providing assistance to managers in creating position descriptions and submitting performance plans, appraisals, and awards. Answer to this question is required Independently conducted ALL of the above tasks in a professional setting. Independently conducted FIVE (5) of the above tasks in a professional setting. Independently or under minimal supervision, conducted FOUR (4) of the above tasks in a professional or trainee setting. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interact collaboratively with others exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide consultation and liaison services.** The ability to work well and cooperate with others (coworkers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units). &nbsp;Exercise judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipate their current and future needs and exchange accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Participated in discussions and conferences concerning long-range planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts internal to the workgroup or office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Individuals had similar views and goals. Exercised judgment and discretion providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to utilize computer technology.** Utilized software technology to perform administrative work for an organization, including: 1) financial databases and tracking systems (e.g. Momentum, eManagement), 2) automated personnel/payroll/time and attendance systems (e.g., GovTA, EmpowHR, NFC, and Solutions Business Manager), &nbsp;3) Microsoft Office (i.e., Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint), 4) collaborative tools (i.e., SharePoint and Confluence), 5) electronic calendars (i.e., Outlook), 6) automated request and tracking systems (e.g., ServiceNow), 7) virtual meeting software (e.g., Microsoft Teams and Zoom), and 8) Internet browsers (e.g., Edge, Firefox, and Chrome). Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an agency/organization. Routinely used SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an agency/organization. Routinely used FIVE (5) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an agency/organization. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work accomplished. &nbsp;This includes the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized and executed multiple, work assignments with competing priorities. Identified work objectives and determined project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, and resources required so all project goals were met. Monitored and evaluated all project activities and assignments, anticipating problems in advance. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. This included identifying work objectives, aspects of the project approach, steps and input required, schedules, milestones and resources required so all project goals were met. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. This included identifying aspects of the work objectives and project approach and meeting deadlines and milestones established by a supervisor. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation such as: &nbsp;1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) management reports, 3) notes and/or meeting minutes, 4) travel justifications, 5) procurement documentation, 6) human resources documentation, 7) training materials, 8) presentations, and 9) policies and/or standard operating procedures. &nbsp;This includes the ability to apply knowledge of the principles and techniques of writing and editing sufficient to review and analyze written products for clarity of expression, accuracy, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness. Answer to this question is required Have experience producing ALL of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervision. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing the written products. Have experience producing SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervision. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing the written products. Have experience producing FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing written products. None of the above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).