Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Choose one answer which best describes your education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 4 level. I have completed 4 years of study in any field above the high school level in an accredited college or university. I have a combination of experience and education which combined meet the education and experience requirements. I do not meet the education and/or experience as described. 2 Which of the following tasks reflect the responsibilities you have performing ID Office functions in accordance with ID Management and Personnel Security Program policies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience issuing badges and credentials to staff and affiliates. I have experience approving security clearances for classified information access. I have experience managing system access based on credentialing requirements. I have experience participating in pre-employment background check processes. None of the above. 3 Which of the following tasks do you have experience performing as part of ID Office functions related to credentialing and access? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience enrolling new applicants into the credentialing system. I have experience capturing and submitting fingerprints for credential issuance. I have experience performing data validity checks on identity source documents. I have experience conducting adjudicative interviews for high-risk background investigations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best describe your experience assisting with intake processing for preemployment background checks and investigations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting with tracking and logging the status of background check forms and related documentation. I have experience assisting with reviewing forms to identify missing or incorrect information and following up to get corrections. I have experience assisting with identifying applicant information that may need further review by personnel security specialists. I have experience assisting with providing administrative support to personnel security staff during the intake and review process. None of the above. 5 Which of the following tasks do you have experience assisting with as part of your duties supporting preemployment background checks? &nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting to check if previous background investigations can be used again by looking them up in systems like the Central Verification System. I have experience assisting to start background investigations in the eQIP system based on the type of job. I have experience assisting to keep track of eQIP applications to make sure applicants complete them on time. I have experience assisting to review eQIP applications to make sure they are complete and meet basic quality standards before they are sent for investigation. I have experience assisting to fix and resubmit eQIP applications that were returned or rejected. None of the above. 6 Which of the following demonstrates your experience in personnel security program activities in which you have personally engaged? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted personnel security specialists during security orientation training programs for new employees. I have explained security background paperwork to employees. I have experience maintaining background investigation cases. I have taken fingerprints of employees/contractors that can be properly classified by receiving agencies. I have reviewed employment applications to determine completeness and to identify potential security factors to be resolved through interviews by staff. I have created database files on background investigation files. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes the extent of your experience in interviewing individuals to obtain additional information for personnel security determinations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have observed personnel security interviews for the purpose of resolving issues in a background investigation. I have conducted interviews with assistance. I have conducted interviews independently to obtain required information in resolving issues. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience adjudicating the results of pre-employment checks and suitability/fitness background investigations? Answer to this question is required I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings and made suitability/fitness determinations for public trust positions. I have made suitability/fitness determinations I have made recommendations regarding suitability/fitness determinations to other staff tasked with making the final adjudicative decision. I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings. None of the above. 9 Which of the following tasks do you have experience assisting with as part of your duties supporting preemployment background checks? &nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted with reviewing cases that contain minor issues under supervision, using established suitability and credentialing standards. I have assisted with referring complex or sensitive cases to more senior staff for further review. I have assisted with identifying incomplete or inconsistent information in case files and notifying senior staff. I have adjudicated personnel security investigations. I have made final suitability determinations for public trust positions. None of the above. Grade: 06 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following tasks reflect the responsibilities you have performing ID Office functions in accordance with ID Management and Personnel Security Program policies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience issuing badges and credentials to staff and affiliates. I have experience approving security clearances for classified information access. I have experience managing system access based on credentialing requirements. I have experience participating in pre-employment background check processes. None of the above. 3 Which of the following tasks do you have experience performing as part of ID Office functions related to credentialing and access? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience enrolling new applicants into the credentialing system. I have experience capturing and submitting fingerprints for credential issuance. I have experience performing data validity checks on identity source documents. I have experience conducting adjudicative interviews for high-risk background investigations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best describe your experience with intake processing for preemployment background checks and investigations? &nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience receiving and reviewing preemployment background check and investigation forms to ensure they are properly completed. I have experience identifying errors or missing information in submitted forms and following up with applicants to obtain corrections. I have experience flagging potentially disqualifying information in applicant data and preparing summaries for review by personnel security specialists. I have experience assisting with tracking and logging the status of background check forms and related documentation. I have experience providing administrative support to personnel security staff during the intake and review process. None of the above. 5 Which of the following tasks do you have experience performing as part of your duties assisting with intake and case processing for preemployment background checks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience evaluating prior background investigations to determine eligibility for reciprocity by conducting checks in the Central Verification System or similar systems. I have experience initiating background investigations in the eQIP system based on assigned position designation levels and established DCSA/OPM guidelines. I have experience monitoring and tracking eQIP applications to ensure timely completion by applicants. I have experience performing technical and quality reviews of completed eQIP applications to ensure they meet OPM standards and are ready for release to the investigative service provider (ISP). I have experience reviewing eQIP applications returned or rejected by ISP, determining required actions, and ensuring corrections are made and resubmitted. None of the above. 6 Which of the following demonstrates your experience in personnel security program activities in which you have personally engaged? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted personnel security specialists during security orientation training programs for new employees. I have explained security background paperwork to employees. I have experience maintaining background investigation cases. I have taken fingerprints of employees/contractors that can be properly classified by receiving agencies. I have reviewed employment applications to determine completeness and to identify potential security factors to be resolved through interviews by staff. I have created database files on background investigation files. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes the extent of your experience in interviewing individuals to obtain additional information for personnel security determinations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have observed personnel security interviews for the purpose of resolving issues in a background investigation. I have conducted interviews with assistance. I have conducted interviews independently to obtain required information in resolving issues. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience adjudicating the results of pre-employment checks and suitability/fitness background investigations? Answer to this question is required I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings and made suitability/fitness determinations for public trust positions. I have made suitability/fitness determinations I have made recommendations regarding suitability/fitness determinations to other staff tasked with making the final adjudicative decision. I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings. None of the above. 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed as a regular part of your duties while assisting with the review of preemployment background check cases? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed and evaluated cases with minor issues under supervision, using established suitability and credentialing standards. I have referred complex or sensitive cases to more senior staff for further review. I have flagged incomplete or inconsistent information in case files and brought it to the attention of senior staff. I have adjudicated personnel security investigations. I have made final suitability determinations for public trust positions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.