Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a carpenter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to carpentry work but have not yet applied it to professional work I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform carpentry work I have independently performed carpentry work None of the above 2 Do you have experience working independently and with minimal supervision with metal studs and drywall? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have experience interpreting designer's blueprints to determine placement for walls, ceilings, doors, baseboards and shoring jacks/equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 I have experience using the following documents to perform tasks independently and with minimal supervision: Answer to this question is required Building Plans Blueprints Drawings Set of written instructions None of the above 5 Which materials do you have experience selecting for specific projects in order to achieve project goals? Answer to this question is required Wood/lumber Adhesives (e.g., contact adhesives, silicon) Fasteners (e.g., nails, screws) Plastics Cabinet joinery (e.g., finger joint, dowel, rabbet) Flooring Hardware (e.g., hinges, locks) Wall material (e.g., drywall, metal studs) None of the above 6 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing wood work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out carpentry work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Determined work sequences and types of lumber and special related materials needed to complete assigned projects. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber and/or wood substitute materials required and the type of tools to use for the job. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. None of the above. 7 Which of the following items have you installed? Answer to this question is required Rafters Doors Windows Staircases Baseboards Molding None of the above 8 What tools have you used to perform precise, intricate carpentry and woodcraft work? Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill presses Sanders Mortises Dado blades Engravers / CNC None of the above 9 Do you&nbsp;have experience with Commercial Space Build Out? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 10 Do you have&nbsp;experience laying out and installing acoustical ceiling? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.