Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from a regionally accredited college/university including courses in biological science, chemistry and mathematics, AND successful completion of a Medical Laboratory Scientist/Clinical Laboratory Scientist program accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. OR A full 4-year course of study that included 12 months in a college or hospital-based medical technology program or medical technology school approved by a recognized accrediting organization. The professional medical technology curriculum may have consisted of a 1-year post- bachelor's certificate program or the last 1 or 2 years of a 4-year program of study culminating in a bachelor's in medical technology. OR A Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from an accredited college/university, including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one semester in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one semester in organic or biochemistry), one semester (one quarter) of mathematics, AND five years of full time acceptable clinical laboratory experience in Blood Banking, Chemistry, Hematology, microbiology, Immunology and Urinalysis/Body Fluids. This combination of education and experience must have provided knowledge of the theories, principles, and practices of medical technology equivalent to that provided by the full 4-year course of study described in A or B above. All science and mathematics courses must have been acceptable for credit toward meeting the requirements for a science major at an accredited college or university. Acceptable experience is responsible professional or technician experience in a hospital laboratory, health agency, industrial medical laboratory, or pharmaceutical house; or teaching, test development, or medical research program experience that provided an understanding of the methods and techniques applied in performing professional clinical laboratory work. Certification/licensure as a medical technologist (generalist) obtained through written examination by a nationally recognized credentialing agency or State licensing body is a good indication that the quality of experience is acceptable.. Evaluation of Education and Experience: The major areas of clinical laboratory science are microbiology, clinical chemistry, hematology, and immunohematology (blood banking). Qualifying course work in these areas includes bacteriology, mycology, mycobacteriology, tissue culture, virology, parasitology, endocrinology, enzymology, toxicology, urinalysis, coagulation, hemostasis, cell morphology, immunology, serology, immunoserology, immuno-deficiency, hemolysis, histocompatibility, cytotechnology, and similar disciplines or areas of laboratory practice.. Related fields include physiology, anatomy, molecular biology, cell biology, embryology, pathology, genetics, pharmacology, histology, cytology, nuclear medicine, epidemiology, biostatistics, infection control, physics, statistics, and similar areas of science where the work is directly related to the position to be filled. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts for verification at the time you apply. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires educational transcripts and/or other supporting documentation as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. You must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded AND any other supporting documentation at the time you apply. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. Medical Technologists must have completed education in all functional areas in the laboratory which includes testing patient samples, interpreting results to verify accuracy & correlation with the clinical picture: Hematology: performed CBCs, bleeding times, manual differentials; Chemistry: performed patient testing on plasma, serum, or urine samples; Blood bank: performed blood types, cross matches, interpreted blood bank results; Microbiology: performed Hepatitis/HIV testing. 4 From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed patient testing in at least one of the specialized categories mentioned above; and/or I have received guidance from a supervisor as testing was performed in order to resolve any problems that occurred. I have performed patient testing in the majority of the specialized categories mentioned above; and/or I have notified a supervisor of any suspicious test results; and/or I have notified a supervisor of test results that did not meet the clinical picture. I have performed patient testing in less than half of the specialized categories mentioned above; and/or I have notified a supervisor of any problems encountered during testing for resolution. None of the above. 5 Medical Technologists must have effective communication skills to communicate with peers, supervisors, physicians, physician assistants, and nursing staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated basic information to other staff regarding lab tests/procedures; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from other departments; and/or I have communicated information direct from patient's file via telephone to supervisor as directed. I have provided updates/status regarding general lab tests/procedures during departmental meetings; and/or I have consulted with a supervisor regarding unusual results; and/or I have provided administrative information such as certain mailing procedures, basic accounting codes, etc., to external laboratories; and/or I have provided lab results and/or medical information to nurses, nursing assistants and other staff, etc. I have presented information either formally or informally to medical staff such as calling critical laboratory results to physicians and other medical personnel; and/or I have independently handled laboratory questions and problems; and/or I have provided information to individuals regarding general laboratory policy or procedures; and/or I have assisted less experienced technologists in determining tools for collection procedures; and/or I have coordinated external laboratory services. None of the above. 6 Medical Technologists must have the ability to work independently in a laboratory setting and be able to answer laboratory questions. They also must be able to perform administrative duties utilizing established policy to assist the laboratory in maintaining consistency in its operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have downloaded testing results into the computer; and/or I have performed manual lab test result entries; and/or I have interpreted lab tests in at least two of the following areas: hematology, chemistry, or urinalysis. I have performed patient sample testing; and/or I have confirmed the accuracy of patient testing; and/or I have evaluated quality control material; and/or I have completed correct testing of blind samples issued by College of American Pathologists (CAP) to maintain laboratory accreditation; and/or I possess knowledge to answer questions by using laboratory manuals. I have interpreted lab tests in hematology, chemistry, or urinalysis with assistance; and/or I have performed manual lab test result entries with guidance; and/or I have downloaded testing results into the computer with supervisory assistance. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from a regionally accredited college/university including courses in biological science, chemistry and mathematics, AND successful completion of a Medical Laboratory Scientist/Clinical Laboratory Scientist program accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. OR A full 4-year course of study that included 12 months in a college or hospital-based medical technology program or medical technology school approved by a recognized accrediting organization. The professional medical technology curriculum may have consisted of a 1-year post- bachelor's certificate program or the last 1 or 2 years of a 4-year program of study culminating in a bachelor's in medical technology. OR A Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from an accredited college/university, including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one semester in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one semester in organic or biochemistry), one semester (one quarter) of mathematics, AND five years of full time acceptable clinical laboratory experience in Blood Banking, Chemistry, Hematology, microbiology, Immunology and Urinalysis/Body Fluids. This combination of education and experience must have provided knowledge of the theories, principles, and practices of medical technology equivalent to that provided by the full 4-year course of study described in A or B above. All science and mathematics courses must have been acceptable for credit toward meeting the requirements for a science major at an accredited college or university. Acceptable experience is responsible professional or technician experience in a hospital laboratory, health agency, industrial medical laboratory, or pharmaceutical house; or teaching, test development, or medical research program experience that provided an understanding of the methods and techniques applied in performing professional clinical laboratory work. Certification/licensure as a medical technologist (generalist) obtained through written examination by a nationally recognized credentialing agency or State licensing body is a good indication that the quality of experience is acceptable.. Evaluation of Education and Experience: The major areas of clinical laboratory science are microbiology, clinical chemistry, hematology, and immunohematology (blood banking). Qualifying course work in these areas includes bacteriology, mycology, mycobacteriology, tissue culture, virology, parasitology, endocrinology, enzymology, toxicology, urinalysis, coagulation, hemostasis, cell morphology, immunology, serology, immunoserology, immuno-deficiency, hemolysis, histocompatibility, cytotechnology, and similar disciplines or areas of laboratory practice.. Related fields include physiology, anatomy, molecular biology, cell biology, embryology, pathology, genetics, pharmacology, histology, cytology, nuclear medicine, epidemiology, biostatistics, infection control, physics, statistics, and similar areas of science where the work is directly related to the position to be filled. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts for verification at the time you apply. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires educational transcripts and/or other supporting documentation as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. You must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded AND any other supporting documentation at the time you apply. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. Medical Technologists must have experience testing patient samples, interpreting the results to verify accuracy and correlation with the clinical picture: Hematology: performed CBCs, bleeding items, manual differentials; Chemistry: performed patient testing on plasma, serum or urine samples; Blood bank: performed blood types, cross matches, interpreted blood bank results; Microbiology: performed Hepatitis/HIV testing. 4 From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed patient testing in all of the specialized categories mentioned above; and I have interpreted laboratory tests to confirm accuracy by comparing results to the patient's physiological and clinical picture and resolved any discrepancies; and/or I have assisted physicians or medical staff regarding possible implication or diagnosis of abnormal patient results. I have performed patient testing in at least three of the specialized categories mentioned above; and/or I have notified a supervisor of any suspicious test results; and/or I have notified a supervisor of test results that did not meet the clinical picture. I have performed patient testing in at least two of the specialized categories mentioned above; and/or I have notified a supervisor of any problems encountered during testing for resolution. None of the above. 5 Medical Technologists must be experienced in all functional areas within the laboratory. This experience should include testing patient samples, evaluating results, identifying and controlling variables which may affect the validity of test results. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ran microbiology and other quality control testing on the appropriate schedule; and/or I have evaluated quality control by using Levi-Jennings and Westgard methods to review established ranges; and/or, after receiving non-routine testing results, I have attempted resolution. I have ran microbiological testing and other quality control on the appropriate schedule; and/or I have evaluated quality control by using Levi-Jennings and Westgard methods; and/or I have recognized equipment malfunctions and performed troubleshooting; and/or I have evaluated quality control material/data/numbers; and/or after identifying problems, I have re-run quality assurance testing. I have completed testing daily excluding micro-biological testing; and/or I have, using established quality control & printed quality control ranges, without consideration for the Levy Jennings or Westgard rules, evaluated quality control material for acceptability; and/or I have recognized equipment/quality control problems existed; and/or I have contacted supervisor for assistance in resolution; and/or, under direct and specific supervision, I have followed procedures to assist in resolution. I have set up statistical analysis for standard deviation, coefficient of variation and mean for the quality control material ranges for testing verification and any other mathematical calculations needed to set up quality control tables; and/or I have accessed manufacturer's manual and independently resolved problems with testing; and/or I have contacted manufacturer's representative and independently resolved problems with testing. With assistance, I have followed manufacturer's manual and resolved testing problems; and/or I have notified supervisors of specialized or non-routine results with recommendations for resolution; and/or, with direction, I have contacted manufacturer's representative for assistance with quality assurance problem resolution. None of the above. 6 Medical Technologists must have effective communication skills to communicate with peers, supervisors, physicians, physician assistants, and nursing staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided updates/status regarding general lab tests/procedures during departmental meetings: and/or I have consulted with supervisor regarding unusual results; and/or I have provided administrative information such as certain mailing procedures, basic accounting codes, etc., to external laboratories; and/or I have provided basic medical information to nurses, medical assistants and other staff, etc. I have presented quality control information to superiors/physicians; and/or I have prepared documents or manuals outlining laboratory procedures and presented to supervisor/physician/ physician assistants; and/or I have performed in a supervisory capacity in a laboratory; and/or I have exchanged technical lab test-related information with outside laboratory staff. I have presented information either formally or informally to medical staff such as calling critical laboratory results to physicians and other medical personnel; and/or I have independently handled laboratory questions and problems; and/or I have provided information to individuals regarding general laboratory policy or procedures; and/or I have assisted less experienced technologists in determining tools for collection procedures; and/or I have coordinated external laboratory services. None of the above. 7 Medical Technologists must have the ability to work independently in a laboratory setting and be able to answer laboratory questions. They also must be able to perform administrative duties utilizing established policy to assist the laboratory in maintaining consistency in its operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently operated in a laboratory setting performing patient sample testing; and/or I have assisted in maintaining laboratory accreditation; and/or I possess technical knowledge of critical laboratory values and the processes to alert the appropriate medical staff of critical test results; and/or I have performed appropriate preventative maintenance on equipment. I have downloaded testing results into the computer; and/or I have performed manual lab test result entries; and/or I have interpreted lab tests in 2 areas of laboratory, i.e., hematology, chemistry, or urinalysis. I have independently operated in a laboratory setting by evaluating quality control material, preparation and correct testing of blind samples issued by College of American Pathologists (CAP); and/or I have possessed a high level of computer competence; and/or I have independently answered laboratory procedural questions without supervisory assistance. Only conferring with senior staff or lab manager in very unusual technical circumstances, I have performed laboratory functions such as patient sample testing; and/or I have confirmed the accuracy of patient testing; and/or I have evaluated quality control material; and/or I have corrected testing of blind samples issued by C.A.P. to maintain laboratory accreditation; and/or I possess knowledge to answer questions regarding laboratory procedures, and if necessary, use laboratory manuals. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).