Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Time and Leave Clerks must communicate with institution staff and timekeepers to obtain, exchange and clarify factual information related to processing documents involved in payroll operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed leave used with institution staff to provide clarity; and/or I have responded to employees' questions regarding leave entitlement; and/or I have answered routine payroll questions. I have explained criteria for entitlement to premium pay, special salary rates, etc.; and/or I have communicated with employees about discrepancies; and/or I have answered complex payroll questions which required in-depth explanation. I have communicated with co-workers, staff, inmates, or members of the general public; and/or I have answered routine clerical questions; and/or I have assisted with providing an overview for training participants. None of the above. 3 Time and Leave Clerks must be able to analyze and evaluate time and attendance information/data to effectively resolve problems related to time and attendance records. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated and resolved pay discrepancies; and/or I have analyzed routine time and attendance error reports; and/or I have analyzed information and provided solutions to pay problems; and/or I have conducted audits for review. I have examined time and attendance records and identified a problem exists with the record; and/or I have required assistance when evaluating pay discrepancies; and/or I have analyzed information related to routine pay issues. I have analyzed unusual time and attendance error reports and resolved errors; and/or I have independently evaluated and resolved complex pay discrepancies; and/or I have analyzed information and provided solutions to pay problems involving special salary rates, continuation of pay and comp time; and/or I have conducted audits to analyze and validate data. None of the above. 4 Time and Leave Clerks must have the ability to use a computer and be able to input, manipulate and retrieve data. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have input time and attendance information into an automated time and attendance system; and/or I have generated standard time and attendance reports; and/or I have understood recurring error reports and taken corrective action. I have corrected improperly documented overtime entries; and/or I have generated special or non-routine time and attendance reports; and/or I have understood unusual error reports and taken corrective action. I have input data into an automated spreadsheet program or database; and/or I have sorted data within database; and/or I have generated routine reports from database. None of the above. 5 To accurately process time and attendance reports, Time and Leave Clerks must have knowledge of rules and regulations pertaining to time and attendance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have posted computed and balanced hours of work using correct codes for leave and overtime; and/or I have responded to routine questions concerning time and attendance; and/or I have completed training in completing time and attendance records. I have solved complex problems with time and attendance records; and/or I have applied regulations to a full range of time and attendance issues; and/or I have verified indebtedness due to overpayment of pay. I have applied regulations covering overtime, night differential and Sunday pay; and/or I have required assistance when resolving complex problems with time and attendance records; and/or I have prepared time and attendance information for worker compensation cases. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).