Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. 4 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required published in peer reviewed journal. created working papers or research reports. completed a dissertation. completed a master's thesis. presented paper(s) at professional conferences. written policy position papers/briefs. None of the above 5 This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts. Choose the statements that describe services you have provided as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization. Facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. Provided guidance to peers, subordinates, and others in a customer service environment. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution. None of the above. 6 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, and/or experience in performing this task. 7 Which of the following choices best describes your past experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization?s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. None of the above. 8 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways. Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 9 Which of the following best represents your level of experience in dealing with people from different cultures / countries? Answer to this question is required I have delivered training on how to deal with people from different cultures / countries. I have received training on deal with people from different cultures / countries. I have lived overseas. I have worked in the immigration services field. I have no experience in dealing with people from different cultures / countries. 10 In which of the following events have you made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Meetings Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above 11 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills: Answer to this question is required I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups. I have facilitated an open exchange of ideas. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units. I have approached each problem / situation with a clear perception of organizational and political reality. I have used contacts to build and strengthen internal support bases. I have developed and enhanced alliances with external groups. I have engaged in cross-functional activities. I have found common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have worked in groups and teams. I have conducted briefings and other meetings. I have gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. I have facilitated controversial / complex situations. I have considered and responded appropriately to the needs, feelings, and capabilities of different people in different situations. I ensure that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have the authority to speak on behalf of my organization in making decisions in one or more program areas. None of the above. 12 Which of the following choices BEST describes your level of experience in providing advice and guidance on procedures and policies for which guidelines lacks clarity and content? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or manager. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or manager. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 14 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, and/or experience in performing this task. 15 Do you have experience communicating findings and concepts to technical audiences in writing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 17 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience with providing advice, guidance, and consultation based on results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 18 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list, identify the types of written products you have produced: Answer to this question is required Regulations Interpretive guidance of regulations Memoranda analyzing legal issues Legal Briefs Declarations / affidavits for use in litigation Witness examinations Decision or Action Memoranda analyzing legal issues Correspondence Statistical Reports Surrender warrants None of the above 4 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to analyze and prioritize competing and/or complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues, identified risk, determined priorities, and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 5 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. 6 This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts. Choose the statements that describe services you have provided as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization. Facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. Provided guidance to peers, subordinates, and others in a customer service environment. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution. None of the above. 7 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills: Answer to this question is required I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups. I have facilitated an open exchange of ideas. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units. I have approached each problem / situation with a clear perception of organizational and political reality. I have used contacts to build and strengthen internal support bases. I have developed and enhanced alliances with external groups. I have engaged in cross-functional activities. I have found common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have worked in groups and teams. I have conducted briefings and other meetings. I have gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. I have facilitated controversial / complex situations. I have considered and responded appropriately to the needs, feelings, and capabilities of different people in different situations. I ensure that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have the authority to speak on behalf of my organization in making decisions in one or more program areas. None of the above. 8 Which of the following choices BEST describes your level of experience in providing advice and guidance on procedures and policies for which guidelines lacks clarity and content? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or manager. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or manager. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques and I have experience in negotiating. I have no formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have experience in negotiating. I have no experience, formal training, or education in negotiation techniques. 10 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 11 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways. Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 12 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent change, delay, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed. Developed productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a goal. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best represents your level of experience in dealing with people from different cultures / countries? Answer to this question is required I have delivered training on how to deal with people from different cultures / countries. I have received training on deal with people from different cultures / countries. I have lived overseas. I have worked in the immigration services field. I have no experience in dealing with people from different cultures / countries. 14 In which of the following events have you made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Meetings Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above 15 Which of the following choices best describes your past experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization?s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. None of the above. 16 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 17 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to express yourself orally in a manner that is clear, concise, and understandable for the purpose of obtaining information relevant to a criminal case? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education or training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competency on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 18 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience with providing advice, guidance, and consultation based on results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 19 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.