Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute training or other education/outreach initiatives.** Demonstrated ability to plan, prioritize, organize, and execute training and other education/outreach initiatives. Answer to this question is required On own initiative, anticipated legal guidance or content needs related to education/outreach initiatives, including the requirements, problems, opportunities, developments, and trends through a thorough knowledge of the organization’s mission, policies, programs, and activities. Proposed, created, and provided training or other educational efforts, ensuring new or revised training, education, or communications efforts were planned, organized, executed, and integrated with current programs and priorities. Anticipated legal guidance or content needs related to education/outreach initiatives including the requirements, problems, opportunities, developments, and trends. Provided training or other educational efforts, ensuring new or revised training, education or communications efforts were planned, organized, executed, and integrated with current programs and priorities. With the direction of a supervisor, worked with others to coordinate legal guidance or content needs related to education/outreach initiatives including the requirements, problems, opportunities, developments, and trends. Delivered or assisted in the delivery of training, ensuring new or revised training and communications efforts were planned, organized, executed, and integrated with current programs and priorities. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to conduct legal research and analysis.** Performed legal research and analysis to evaluate information and prepare materials on legal and policy issues. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on difficult and emerging Copyright issues. Example: Based on research, recommended policies and procedures implementing new and amended legislation, ensuring consistency with the intent of the law. Experience researching and preparing documents and materials on moderately difficult legal questions or legal questions lacking clearly applicable precedents on Copyright issues. Research was often conducted at the direction of a more senior attorney. Experience researching and preparing documents and materials on moderately difficult legal questions on Copyright issues. Assignments and research were conducted at the direction of a more senior attorney. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to convey legal analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations.** Communicated analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations. Answer to this question is required Presented analysis on a variety of Copyright issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous to discuss and clarify legal and policy matters related to Copyright law. Examples include, giving presentations or training to government, private sector, colleagues, clients and general audiences. In a professional setting, presented analysis on a variety of copyright issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. In a professional setting, presented analysis on intellectual property issues. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products such as: 1) legal memos, 2) position papers, 3) analytical studies, 4) documents reviewing and analyzing statutes and regulations, 5) court briefs or arbitration pleadings or briefs, 6) legal articles or other publications, 7) testimony, 8) educational or training materials, and 9) policy and procedural documents. This includes tailoring the tone, level of diction, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the context and needs of the audience. Answer to this question is required Experience preparing complex copyright or other legal documents and materials with minimal supervisory direction, including AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above. Experience preparing copyright or other legal documents and materials with minimal supervisory direction, including FOUR (4) of the above. Experience preparing legal documents and materials with minimal supervisory direction, including THREE (3) of the above. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships and interact collaboratively with others. Developed and maintained effective working relationships and interacted collaboratively with others. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships with staff and people in the private and public sector and those with recognized professional standing in Copyright or legal community. Served as an authoritative source on matters related to Copyright law. Led and participated in discussions on legal issues related to Copyright to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with staff and those with recognized professional standing in Copyright or legal community. Served as a knowledgeable source on matters related to Copyright law. Participated in discussions on legal issues related to Copyright to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with people in the legal community. Served as a knowledgeable source on matters related to Copyright or other areas of intellectual property law. Participated in discussions on legal issues related to intellectual property matters to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Grade: 13 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to plan, prioritize, organize and/or execute training or other education/outreach initiatives.** Demonstrated ability to plan, prioritize, organize, and execute training and other education/outreach initiatives. Answer to this question is required Independently anticipated legal guidance or content needs related to education/outreach initiatives, including the requirements, problems, opportunities, developments, and trends through a thorough knowledge of an organization or agency’s mission, policies, programs, and activities. Provided training or other educational efforts, ensuring new or revised training, education, or communications efforts were planned, organized, executed, and integrated with current programs and priorities. Independently or as part of a team, anticipated legal guidance or content needs related to education/outreach initiatives including the requirements, problems, opportunities, developments, and trends. Provided training or other educational efforts, ensuring new or revised training, education or communications efforts were planned, organized, executed, and integrated with current programs and priorities. As part of a team, worked with others to coordinate legal guidance or content needs related to education/outreach initiatives including the requirements, problems, opportunities, developments, and trends. Delivered or assisted in the delivery of training, ensuring new or revised training and communications efforts were planned, organized, executed, and integrated with current programs and priorities. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to conduct legal research and analysis.** Performed legal research and analysis to evaluate information and prepare materials on legal and policy issues. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on difficult and emerging copyright issues. Examples: Drafted policies and procedures implementing new and amended legislation, ensuring consistency with the intent of the law. Experience researching and preparing documents and materials on moderately difficult legal questions or legal questions lacking clearly applicable precedents on intellectual property issues (copyrights or trademarks). Experience researching and preparing documents and materials on moderately difficult legal questions or legal questions lacking clearly applicable precedents on intellectual property issues (copyrights or trademarks). Research was conducted at the direction of a more senior attorney. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to convey legal analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations.** Communicated analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations. Answer to this question is required Presented analysis on a variety of copyright issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous to discuss and clarify legal and policy matters related to copyright law. Examples include, giving presentations and/or training to government, private sector, colleagues, clients and general audiences. In a professional setting, presented analysis on a variety of copyright issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. In a professional setting, presented analysis on copyright or other intellectual property issues. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products such as: 1) legal memos, 2) position papers, 3) analytical studies, 4) documents reviewing and analyzing statutes and regulations, 5) court briefs or arbitration pleadings or briefs, 6) legal articles or other publications, 7) testimony, and 8) policy and procedural documents. This includes tailoring the tone, level of diction, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the context and needs of the audience. Answer to this question is required Experience INDEPENDENTLY preparing complex copyright or other legal documents and materials, including ALL of the above. Experience INDEPENDENTLY preparing copyright or other legal documents and materials with minimal supervisory direction, including SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. Experience preparing legal documents and materials with minimal supervisory direction, including FOUR (4) or FIVE(5) of the above. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships and interact collaboratively with others. Developed and maintained effective working relationships and interacted collaboratively with others. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships with staff and persons in the private and public sector and those with recognized professional standing in copyright or legal community. Served as an authoritative source on matters related to copyright law. Led and participated in discussions on legal issues related to copyright to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with staff and those with recognized professional standing in copyright or legal community. Served as a knowledgeable source on matters related to copyright law. Participated in discussions on legal issues related to copyright to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with persons in the legal community. Served as a knowledgeable source on matters related to copyright or other areas of intellectual property law. Participated in discussions on legal issues related to intellectual property matters to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).