Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 GS-5 Choose the one answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university. I have completed 3 full years of general experience, one of which is equivalent to the GS-4 level in the Federal Service, involving the analysis, explanation, application, or interpretation of laws, rules, regulations, procedures, etc. Qualifying general experience may have been gained as a law clerk, contact representative, claims examiner, voucher examiner, or similar work with a government or private employer. I have a combination of post-high school education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 07 1 GS-7 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have completed 1 full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I have a grade-point average of "B" (3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I have a grade-point average of "B+" (3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all courses in my major field of study, or those courses in my major completed in the last two years of my undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I ranked in the upper one-third of my class in the college, university, or major subdivision. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university and I am a member of a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.