Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I acknowledge and understand that this position observes law enforcement officer retirement provisions (First-time appointees to positions covered under law enforcement officer retirement provisions must not have reached their 37th birthday at the time of appointment. Applicants 37 years or over who have previous law enforcement officer experience under the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees' Retirement System and who have either a subsequent break in service or intervening service in a non-law enforcement officer position may have their previous law enforcement officer experience subtracted from their age to determine whether they meet the maximum age requirement.) Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which statement below best describes your highest level of education and years of experience? Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s degree in Social Work, Psychology, Sociology, Business or Public Administration, Criminal Justice or related field, . I have a master’s degree in Social Work, Psychology, Sociology, Business or Public Administration, or other social science. I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. I have a master’s degree from an accredited college or university. None of the above. 3 Do you have experience with social service programs involving children, adolescents and their families? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the response that most accurately reflects your judgment and decision-making: Answer to this question is required I have used available information and independent judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet objectives and to take a course of action to meet the deadline of a situation. I have used available information and independent judgment, anticipated impacts and implications of alternatives to arrive at a course of action. I have used available information and independent judgment to arrive at a course of action, anticipated impacts and implications of alternatives, using various decision-making tools and techniques for analyzing and weighing information to take appropriate action within time constraints. I have led others in the collection and analyzing new, information, where I anticipated impacts and implications of alternatives, used various decision-making tools and techniques for weighing and analyzing information to take appropriate action within time constraints and evaluated the outcomes of determined actions. None of the above. 5 Choose the response that most accurately reflects your preparation and writing of reports and documents: Answer to this question is required I am able to concisely and accurately draft documents reflecting my rationale for positions in almost all written documents. I am able to illustrate clear thoughts and purpose for the report. I am able to identify key points and facts in a logical order that clearly develops my thoughts and conclusions. I exemplify clear thoughts, purpose, logical order and relevant content using short paragraphs and sentences with appropriate grammar and spelling. None of the above. 6 Which of the following responses most accurately reflects your ability to work under pressure, multitask and meet deadlines: Answer to this question is required I am well organized and work well under pressure. I organize tasks, remain calm and focused and meet deadlines as requested. I create a time management system and prioritize work. I prioritize, adjust the work setting to maximize productivity, set reasonable time expectations for components of the work, organize and enlist others as needed to complete the tasks required. None of the above. 7 Choose the response that most reflects your experience in planning and participation in community activities while supervising youth and/or families: Answer to this question is required I have participated in community events with youth. I have participated in community events with youth and families. I have planned and participated in community events with youth and families. I have planned, organized, made budget considerations and had direct involvement in community events, program and activities that focused on youth and families. None of the above. 8 Select as many as apply to your experience with working collaboratively on a team, committee, or project: Answer to this question is required I work independently and without input or assistance. I interface with other teams within my agency, organization, branch or unit. I interface with other teams outside my agency, organization, branch or unit. I interface with other teams, agencies, organizations, branches and/or units and this work required collaboration with others who are either independent individuals or from other organizations or groups. None of the above. 9 Select the statement or statements that best describe your skill level in the use of computer applications. Answer to this question is required I can operate a computer and possess basic Windows knowledge. I can operate a computer, possess basic Windows operating system knowledge and can use some MS Office Applications. I can operate a computer using and/or creating graphics, multimedia, Internet, Email, Spreadsheets, Databases, downloading and more. I have a high level of computer operation proficiency and have earned computer certifications such as MS Certified Systems Administrator, MS Office Specialist or others. None of the above. 10 I have experience working with a diverse group of people. This group includes: people from a range of ages, a variety of ethnicities, educational and socio-economic levels. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Select the responses that describe your working knowledge of community resources for youth and/or families: Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of many community resources. I have knowledge of and have utilized community resources. I have researched and verified resources, determined access, and assisted youth and families in initiating contact. I have researched and verified resources, determined access, and made certain youth and families were connected and progressing. None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).