Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 01 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Has student previously held a position with the Library of Congress? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required No Held position as Work Study Student at the Library of Congress Held permanent appointment Held temporary appointment Served as an unpaid volunteer 3 Are you currently a High School student? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 What High School do you currently attend? (Include Name and School Address) Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 4 What grade are you in? Answer to this question is required 11th grade - Junior Year 12th grade - Senior Year 5 What is student's expected graduation date? Answer to this question is required 6 Is the student enrolled in a Work-Based Learning Course at their school? Answer to this question is required Yes No Student is Homeschooled 7 Will the student be available for work Monday - Friday 12:00-4:00 p.m. OR Monday - Friday 1:00-5:00 p.m.? Answer to this question is required Yes No I am able to work 20 hours a week, but need a later start time. 8 List the student's career goals. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 What training, has the student received towards accomplishing his/her career goals? (Examples include: volunteer hours, relevant classes, foreign language skills) Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 From what kinds of work experiences would the student benefit? Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 What does the student plan to do beyond this program to accomplish his/her career goals? Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).