Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Mentor Coordinators must express ideas clearly and concisely to individuals and groups. Contacts include, but are not limited to Bureau of Prisons' staff, community organizations, federal agencies and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have greeted visitors to the department and provided general information; and/or I have provided an update on the status of a project during a staff meeting; and/or I have given basic instruction to employees regarding filling out standard forms; and/or I have communicated information on a work assignment with coworkers and to the supervisor. I have conveyed basic, non-technical information to individuals or small groups; and/or I have responded to telephone inquiries; and/or I have clarified procedures to inmates during Admission and Orientation classes; and/or I have briefed supervisor on projects. I have briefed the public on programs/issues; and/or I have presented program at a recall as a member of Union, Employees Club, Affirmative Action or other group; and/or I have chaired organization or institution committee; and/or I have attended a Dale Carnegie or other formal training on speaking. None of the above. 3 Mentor Coordinators communicate in writing with people at all levels both internal and external to the agency regarding a variety of issues. They are responsible for creating reports, correspondences, and/or memoranda's. They are required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written technical reports and correspondence; and/or I have written speaking points for management; and/or I have prepared summary and programmatic reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have served on a review team for a staff assist, Operational Review or Program Review and synthesized audit findings for administrative supervisors; and/or I have created media presentations using Power-Point, Microsoft Word, etc. I have prepared incidence reports; and/or I have written basic official correspondence; and/or I have completed standardized forms; and/or I have generated electronic messages to convey information to others; and/or I have completed a writing course; and/or I have responded to requests for information from outside agencies and the court system. I have ensured proper format and grammar for outgoing correspondence; and/or I have developed a departmental checklist; and/or I have prepared written documents such as leave/time sheets and purchase requests; and/or I have composed internal memorandum that described uncomplicated procedures. None of the above. 4 The Mentor Coordinator assists in the development of faith-based and secular mentor programs for inmates. Together with the Department Head Chaplain, Life Connections Program (LCP) Chaplain and Reentry Affairs Coordinator,&nbsp;they build relationships with the United States Probation Services, residential reentry centers, and faith-based and community organizations to achieve successful community reentry for incarcerated individuals. He/she recruits mentoring organizations; matches inmates with mentors LCP sites, Threshold, and other locally developed mentor programs.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored release preparation programs, victim impact groups, wellness and recovery groups; and/or I have supported institutional volunteerism by assisting and participating in Affirmative Employment Programs; and/or I have trained inmates about the importance of mentoring relationships; and/or I have participated in community volunteer efforts of the Institutional Volunteer program, Community Relations Board, institutional tours. I have facilitated release preparation programs, victim impact groups, wellness programs and recovery groups; and/or I have coordinated the use of institutional volunteerism as an Affirmative Employment Program Manager, Crisis Support Team Leader, Hostage Negotiation Team Leader; and/or I have provided oversight during a volunteer program or community effort. I have coordinated a voluntary inmate work detail, such as Toys for Tots; and/or I have organized inmate/community sporting event with community groups and prepared internal agency rosters and call-outs; and/or I have provided escort and security coverage to community guests and institutional volunteers during a mock job fair. None of the above. 5 Mentor Coordinators oversee the mentor components of faith based and Secular program's growth, curriculum development and fiscal management. Through working collaboratively with pertinent staff, they seek resources to fulfill mentoring services that support Bureau of Prisons' Program Statements and Operation Memoranda. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered a reentry and/or volunteer inmate mentoring program; and/or I have facilitated LCP or Threshold lessons; and/or I have organized reentry events; and/or I have created curriculum for reentry programming; and/or I oversaw a multi-faith and secular program. I have assisted in planning mentoring programs for inmates; and/or I have facilitated pre-release programs; and/or I have coordinated victim impact panels; and/or I have facilitated training for institutional volunteers; and/or I have participated in reentry, volunteer and/or mentoring trainings; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on reentry issue; and/or I have led mock job interviews for inmates. I oversaw mentoring programs for inmates post release; and/or I have served as a Program Manager for volunteers; and/or I have offered departmental reentry workshops or trainings; and/or I have facilitated release program groups with inmates; and/or I have integrated reentry and mentoring concepts in a holistic approach. I have entered reentry progress and goal data into the Bureau's inmate database system; and/or I have reported on reentry/mentor/volunteer training sessions; and/or I have researched reentry mentor needs of inmates. None of the above. 6 The Mentor Coordinator maintains the keying and tracking of reentry data in the Bureau&rsquo;s inmate database system and SENTRY so the Chaplaincy Services Branch, Office of Research and Evaluation and the National Reentry Affairs Branch can conduct accurate reentry research.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contributed to the tracking of inmates in a program, class or job assignment; and/or I have regularly utilized a computer based program to monitor the status of inmates; and/or I have provided ongoing collection and maintenance of data. I have participated in a review of departmental procedures to streamline and/or enhance programs; and/or I have read policy to determine consistency with other policies or regulations and informed supervisor of inconsistencies; and/or I have studied forms or documents for completeness and conformity to instructions/policy. I have compiled progress data for the duration of reentry programs; and/or I have analyzed inmate reentry participation data to complete work assignments; and/or I have assessed the Bureau's inmate database system for quality control and made recommendations for further advancement of programs and resources. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).