Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in safety or occupational health fields (safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene) OR I possess a degree in other related fields that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of study from among the following (or closely related) disciplines: safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene, occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology. I have experience in specific occupational fields such as industrial hygienist, safety engineer, fire prevention engineer, health physicist, and occupational health nurse which has given me the experience described in the OPM Qualifications Standards for Safety and Occupational Health Management Series, 0018 under “Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5)” (http://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/0000/safety-and-occupational-health-management-series-0018/ ). I possess Certification that shows that I am a Certified Safety Professional (CSP), Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH), or Certified Health Physicist (CHP), or similar certification that includes successful completion of a written examination. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience must demonstrate at least 3 of the following: (1) Professional knowledge and experience planning, developing, coordinating, administering, evaluating and overseeing a comprehensive safety, occupational health and/or environmental health program; (2) Conducting safety inspections and developing job hazard analysis to identify critical failures and prevent exposure to hazardous materials and other hazardous construction site activities; and developing corrective actions as necessary; (3) Evaluating health and safety/accident prevention plans and project design drawings to ensure compliance with organizational and national safety and occupational health laws, policies, regulations, and standards; and (4) Assessing contractor safety performance and compliance with contractual and safety and occupational health requirements. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience planning, developing and overseeing a safety and occupational health program, operations and activities for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 List all safety certifications and training that you have received and the date (month and year) when completed. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which of the following programs have you managed and/or performed inspections? Answer to this question is required Shop, office or warehouse safety Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Fall protection Aerial work platforms Equipment safety / operations Hazardous Material Communication (HAZCOM) Lockout/Tagout Confined Spaces Hearing Conservation Fire prevention Environmental safety None of the above 4 Which types of sites have you performed occupational health and safety inspections? Answer to this question is required Construction sites in occupied buildings New construction sites Renovation sites None of the above 5 Have you served as a safety lead on a construction program? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which activities have you performed related to construction safety? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted risk and job hazard analyses during design to mitigate risks by applying hazard control principles through engineering, construction planning, administrative controls, and utilizing personal protective equipment. I have worked with new, existing, historic buildings and other structures in a myriad of locations and environmental extremes. I have conducted construction safety inspections/observations identifying deficiencies and ensuring resolution. I have performed quality assurance reviews of design documents to verify submissions meet quality and professional standards and methodologies established by your professional discipline and comply with applicable laws, codes, regulations, policies, and guidelines. I have performed accident investigation procedures and techniques. I have maintained professional proficiency by staying on the leading edge of technology within safety engineering. I have reviewed construction contractors Health and Safety Plans/Accident Prevention Plans, including recommending acceptance or rejection of these plans. None of the above 7 Do you have experience reviewing construction contractors Safety and/or Accident Prevention Plans for acceptance or rejection? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which tasks have you performed related to safety and occupational health program management? Answer to this question is required Implemented programs to reduce the frequency, severity, and cost of accidents and occupational illnesses Integrated safety and occupational health (SOH) criteria into the initial planning phase of acquisition, construction, and resource change proposals Performed cost benefit analyses to control or eliminate known risks Assessed the adequacy of safety and occupational health (SOH) program efforts Evaluated statistical data to determine trends Identified ways to minimize training time across multiple programs Conducted inspections and/or audits to access the health of a program None of the above 9 Select all of the following safety and environmental programs in which you have experience independently managing: Answer to this question is required Fall Protection Program Electrical Safety Program Indoor Air Quality Program Asbestos Control Program Environmental Impact Studies Confined Space Program Hot work, welding, cutting and brazing Cranes, Aerial Lifts, Powered Industrial Trucks, and Fleet Safety Storage Tanks and Pressure Vessels Elevators, Escalators, and Railcar Systems Storage Tanks and Pressure Vessels Construction Safety None of the above 10 Have you evaluated new and existing work processes or products to determine the existence, severity, probability, and outcome of hazards? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to emergency response plans. Answer to this question is required I have assisted with the development or assessment of emergency response plans. I have experience implementing emergency response plans. I have experience conducting emergency response plan training. I do not have experience related to emergency response plans. 12 Which laws, regulations, codes, or standards have you interpreted and applied at work? Answer to this question is required Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation 29 CFR 1910 Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation 29 CFR 1926 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) codes/regulations American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) standards Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) laws/regulations State and local regulations related to safety and occupational health American National Standards Institute (ANSI) None of the above 13 Which types of inspections have you conducted? Answer to this question is required Workplace inspections Job site/construction inspections Audit inspections None of the above 14 Please indicate the tasks that describe situations you have encountered in either your current position or past employment. Answer to this question is required I have led highly complex safety and health team to perform investigations or resolve safety concerns. I have maintained safety and health contacts, actively engaged the cooperation of internal and external stakeholders in working on common tasks or group projects; shared work and decision-making with others. I have promoted open lines of communication, where employees were provided the tools necessary to accomplish set goals and tasks. Handled workplace disputes promptly and effectively. I have stressed innovation and risk-taking, analyzed problem, developed alternative solutions, and new approaches. Took calculated risks to move program forward. I have anticipated and met the needs of clients and customers, set standards for customer needs and satisfaction. I have implemented special projects by analyzing the problem, developing alternative solutions, emphasizing new approaches, and carrying out these special projects in a timely manner. None of the above. 15 What types of investigations have you performed ? Answer to this question is required Personal injury investigations Property damage investigations Near Miss incidents Root cause analysis Vehicle accident investigations Hazardous material release investigations An incident that involved the response of local or state emergency personnel Fatality investigations None of the above 16 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 17 Which contract management duties have you performed as regular and recurring part of your job? Answer to this question is required Preparing solicitation documents (such as scopes of work and RFP/RFQ) and cost estimates Supporting safety and industrial hygiene services provided by a contractor Serving as a contracting officer’s technical representative to review deliverables and invoices Serving as a contracting officer for management of deliverable and invoices None of the above 18 Which response best reflects your highest level of experience working cooperatively and collaboratively with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have worked on a team where each member had been designated a distinctly separate role and required minimal collaboration. I have encouraged individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with others to achieve a goal by sharing and integrating ideas, knowledge, information, and support resources. In a leadership capacity, I improved teamwork, cooperation, and productivity among various offices and teams. None of the above. 19 With which individuals have you collaborated to develop solutions to occupational health and safety issues? Answer to this question is required First line/field employees Project engineers Design engineers Contracting Officer's Technical Representatives (COTRs) Other Safety and Occupational Health Specialists Public safety personnel High-level leaders within your agency/organization None of the above 20 Please indicate which of the following tasks you have performed as a routine requirement for writing and publishing documents to address various and widely diverse target audiences ranging from trades to professionals and executives. Answer to this question is required Composed project status summary reports. Composed documents or correspondence of a business nature. Composed fact sheets, marketing materials, awareness materials, etc. Composed complex occupational safety and health correspondence. Wrote reports or findings regarding occupational safety and health (such as accident investigation reports, materials to support legal filings, etc.). Wrote trade or professional association publication articles. Developed technical manuals or other instructional materials. Reviewed the written work of others for accuracy. Created policy documents, SOPs, and job hazard analyses (JHAs) None of the above. 21 Check all the responses that describe your experience with writing safety related documents. Answer to this question is required I have created new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). I have updated existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). I have composed complex occupational safety and health documents or correspondence such as Agency cooperative or recognition programs. I have written reports or findings regarding occupational safety and health such as accident investigation reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant case files, etc. I have developed occupational safety technical guidance or other instructional materials. I have composed daily activity reports regarding complex safety and health investigations. None of the above 22 Select all responses to the following statements that apply to your oral communication experience: Answer to this question is required I have conducted and/or facilitated group discussions I have conducted and/or facilitated formal meetings. I have interviewed people to elicit facts or obtain information. I have consulted or advised others on occupational safety and health issues. I have communicated the results of evaluations or reviews. I have presented complex, technical information to persons unfamiliar with the subject. I have participated in education, training, or apprenticeship programs requiring oral presentation. I have providing instructions, training, and advice to other professional employees. I have provided training on Safety, Fire, and/or Environmental Programs. None of the above. 23 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 23.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.