Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of financial management policies and procedures. ** Applied knowledge of financial management policies and procedures to understand the interrelationships between agency financial systems to evaluate records and transactions, identify system issues and problems, and initiate corrective actions. Answer to this question is required Conducted various financial management assignments to identify and resolve financial matters, including gathering, compiling, and reviewing and reconciling financial data to ensure transactions were properly input in the internal financial management tracking system. Adjustments were made using well-established financial management practices recommendations were made to solve unusual situations/problems encountered. Conducted financial management assignments sufficient to identify and resolve routine, non-complex financial matters, including gathering, compiling and reviewing financial data to ensure transactions were properly input and adjusting erroneous financial data. Performed entry-level work related to financial management sufficient to assist in obtaining, compiling, and summarizing narrative information and quantitative data for use by others in the organization, including reviewing and ensuring the accuracy of the cost of line items on requisitions. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of automated systems used in financial analysis work. ** Worked with automated systems, programs, and software regularly used in the financial field. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive experience utilizing an automated financial management system for accounts payable, accounts receivable, analysis and reconciliation. Provided training or technical assistance to other users of a financial management system. Demonstrated experience utilizing an automated financial management system for accounts payable, accounts receivable, analysis and reconciliation. Demonstrated experience utilizing an automated system for financial analysis and reconciliation. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to provide customer service. ** Demonstrated ability to provide customer service to a wide variety of individuals requiring financial advice and assistance on a variety of accounting matters. Answer to this question is required Independently resolved routine financial management-related queries. Determined the scope and nature of actions required to resolve customer problems on a variety accounting matters. Helped customers define their problems and outlined options available to them. Tracked cases to resolution and reported outcomes. With minimal assistance, resolved routine financial management-related queries. Determined the scope and nature of actions required to resolve finance-related customer service problems on a variety of accounting matters. Helped customers define their problems and outlined options available to them. With minimal assistance, fielded routine financial management-related queries and referred them to a supervisor. Determined the scope and nature of actions required to resolve finance-related customer service problems on a variety of accounting matters. Helped customers define their problems. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to gather, organize, analyze, and reconcile financial data. Organized, analyzed, and reconciled financial data while performing accounting work for financial advisory services, prepared financial reports, and analyzed financial data derived from various sources. Answer to this question is required Organized, analyzed, and reconciled financial data while performing accounting work for financial advisory services. Prepared financial reports and analyzed financial data derived from various sources. Demonstrated experience organizing and compiling statistical data when preparing financial reports, gathering and reconciling data, processing financial transactions and utilizing analytical techniques to resolve financial issues and problems. Organized, analyzed and reconciled financial data while performing accounting work for financial advisory services. Demonstrated experience in routine financial report preparation, gathering and reconciling data from various sources, and utilizing analytical techniques to resolve financial issues and problems. Conducted detailed examination of transactions, researched for required information and classified accounting and/or financial data. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).