Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and is at or at least equivalent to the Grade 7 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. I have 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related discipline. I have a combination of graduate level education in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related discipline. and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT have the experience or education described above. 2 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirement for Biological Sciences positions. Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education. Answer to this question is required I have completed requirements for bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college/university in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. I have a combination of successfully completed college-level education that provided knowledge equivalent to that described above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 New question: Which of the following best describes your experience caring for animals at an AZA-accredited institution? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing and implementing protocols for and overseeing all aspects of an animal program at an AZA-accredited zoo, including animal care, training, enrichment, husbandry, management, nutrition, and health. I have experience overseeing all aspects of an animal program at an AZA-accredited zoo, including animal care, training, enrichment, husbandry, management, nutrition, and health. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with equipment and procedures needed to manage and restore forests and riparian areas that would be applicable to the mid-atlantic region (.e. Virginia)? Answer to this question is required I have experience after schooling on multiple restoration projects in region including all aspects of project. I have experience with multiple machinery and techniques used for forest and riparian management I have experience on forest, riparian areas restoration projects. I have experience with course work and labs specific to forest management. I have experience with Ecology course work in college. None of above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in/with biological sciences, wildlife conservation and environmental science and policy? Answer to this question is required I have experience and training in research and publications in biological sciences, wildlife conservation and environmental science and policy. I have experience and training in biological sciences and wildlife conservation. I have experience in wildlife conservation (including at least research assistance). I have no experience in/with biological sciences, wildlife conservation and environmental science and policy. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with applying herbicide to control invasive plants and perform burns for grassland management? Answer to this question is required I have experience after schooling on multiple restoration projects in region including all aspects of project. Including prescribed burns I have experience in applying herbicides/pesticides to control invasive plants to protect and control grasslands I have experience on grassland projects to include management. I have experience with course work and labs specific to grassland management; wild fire management. I have experience with Ecology course work in college. None of above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with project review, project approval, record-keeping for ecological or monitoring projects. Include ability to produce written reports with summary statistics for supervisors and the public? Answer to this question is required I have experience having designed and managed reporting for own projects and projects of others. I have experience having managed reports for several projects. I have experience having produced annual reports using scripts in excel or other database software. I have experience having provided summary of work during internship or job; knowledge of relational databases such as access. I have experience having produced reports as part of coursework; knowledge of excel. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in conducting field-based ecological research? Answer to this question is required I have experience in coordinating and leading field-based ecological research. It has been a central or major part of my work and I am often consulted for my experience and ability. I have experience in conducting field-based ecological research as a part of my work. I have training in or have participated in field-based ecological research, usually assisting others. Field-based research is not usually a part of my job. I have no experience or training in conducting field-based ecological research. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with creating spatial databases of ecological data, or natural resources, for site and project tracking, reports, websites? Answer to this question is required I have experience having used web-based GIS to display project results. I have experience and am proficient in GIS as demonstrated by multiple map projects. I have experience having completed projects using GIS to map natural resources. I have had course work in GIS and statistics. None of the above. 10 Select the best answer that appropriately describe your experience teaching ecological principles or field protocols to volunteers or students. Answer to this question is required I currently teach ecology related course for professionals, general public or college students OR I have taught ecology related course for professionals, general public or college students. I conduct regular trainings through updated materials to train volunteers and students I have prepared and presented materials to train volunteers or students on natural resource management I have used prepared materials to train volunteers or students on natural resource management I do not have any experience as described above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.