Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead a diverse workforce.** Performed leadership functions by setting goals to accomplish the work and ensure colleagues understood duties or delegated tasks to maximize efficiency and productivity. Demonstrated proficiency in these competencies: Demonstrated ability to gain a broad understanding of the organizational mission to identify requirements and plan work; Took initiative to analyze, solve issues and accept responsibility for outcomes; Enforced standards by communicating expectations and monitoring productivity of others; Ensured quality control by monitoring the integrity and consistency of the work performed; Negotiated resolution of conflicting interests; Fostered collaboration between people and facilitated group discussions to improve processes and performance; Motivated and provided direction with constructive feedback and coaching to staff; and Encouraged diversity and inclusiveness, created a work environment that fosters creativity, integrity and honesty Answer to this question is required Led a diverse workforce toward meeting the organization’s vision, mission and goals. Demonstrated leadership functions by setting goals for accomplishing the work and ensuring that employees colleagues or team members understood the duties or delegated tasks in ways to maximize efficiency and productivity. Demonstrated experience, which incumbent exhibited initiative to analyze and solve issues and accepted responsibility for outcomes. Demonstrated experience motivating and providing direction with constructive feedback and coaching to employees, colleagues, or team members. Led a diverse workforce toward meeting the organization’s vision, mission and goals. Demonstrated leadership functions by setting goals for accomplishing the work and ensuring that employees, colleagues or team members understood the duties or delegated tasks in ways to maximize efficiency and productivity. Demonstrated experience furthering the organizational mission. Demonstrated quality control by monitoring the integrity and consistency of the work being performed. Led a diverse workforce toward meeting the organization’s vision, mission and goals. Demonstrated leadership functions by setting goals for accomplishing the work and ensuring that employees, colleagues or team members understood the duties or delegated tasks in ways to maximize efficiency and productivity. Demonstrated experience understanding the organizational mission and identified appropriate requirements needed and plan or delegate assignments. Demonstrated quality control by monitoring the integrity and consistency of the work being performed. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze, plan, develop and execute library programs and projects.** Planned, developed and analyzed strategies necessary to execute library programs and projects. Provided appropriate strategies to solve program and/or organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Served in a leadership capacity, to plan, develop, evaluate, and implement overall library and information projects and services supporting strategic objectives and an organization's operations and mission. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, and ensured goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Assisted in the planning, development, evaluation and implementation of library and information projects and services to support an organization’s mission. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement and assisted in ensuring goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Assisted in the development and implementation of library and information projects and services to support an organization’s mission. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives, analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions, and assisted in ensuring goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science.** Applied professional knowledge of library and information management principles, concepts and techniques to manage functions and execute programs related to acquisitions, cataloging, or collection development. Answer to this question is required Have applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a broad range of a major agency and/or library systems environment’s functions and programs. Functions and programs included are acquisitions, processing and preservation, and cataloging. Have applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute one or more major functions or programs in a library systems environment, including acquisitions, processing and preservation, and/or cataloging. Have applied knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute one or more major functions or programs in a library systems environment, including acquisitions, processing and preservation, and/or cataloging. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Provided consultation or liaison duties to exchange information and interact collaboratively with persons inside and outside of an organization, including decision-makers and their staff, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or customers. Answer to this question is required Provided leadership in performing a variety of consultative or liaison activities which included directing library-wide ad hoc committees, providing consultative services, demonstrating new information services, and making presentations at professional meetings. Maintained professional standing through various methods, including, membership in professional organizations, publication in library or professional journals, and serving on programs or public events. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained or presented specialized or technical information to groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. Established and maintained liaison with library colleagues. Performed a variety of consultative or liaison activities which included participating in ad hoc committees, providing consultative services, conducting or assisting with workshops, demonstrating new information services, and making or assisting with presentations at professional meetings. Maintained professional standing through various methods, including, membership in professional organizations, publication in library or professional journals, and serving on programs or public events. Established and maintained liaison with library colleagues. Performed a variety of consultative or liaison activities which included participating in ad hoc committees, providing consultative services, conducting or assisting with workshops, and demonstrating new information services. Provided advice and instruction to readers and staff on use of library resources. Maintained professional standing through various methods, including, membership in professional organizations. Established and maintained liaison with library colleagues. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Knowledge of integrated library systems, library applications, and other information technologies. Utilized knowledge of library trends, library and information science, integrated library systems, computer technology and software applications such as: 1) Voyager acquisitions and cataloging modules, 2) library applications, websites, and databases, 3) Cataloger's Desktop, 4) Microsoft Office, and other library technologies to execute library functions and provide customer service. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute significant library operations and programs (e.g., assisted in the implementation of an upgrade or new module to an integrated library system.) Applied extensive knowledge of integrated library systems and technology capabilities to execute existing library operations and programs (e.g., improved upon existing library systems through the creation or application of new techniques or tools, such as the development of new macros to improve upon library functions or services.) Applied knowledge of integrated library systems and library technologies in existing library operations and programs (e.g., assisted others with troubleshooting technological problems). None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to provide training. Determined and coordinated training needs for staff and assessed the outcomes. Answer to this question is required In a supervisory or leadership capacity, determined the training needs of staff, coordinated the training and assessed the outcomes. Developed and implemented training plans to meet the needs of the organization In a supervisory or leadership capacity, determined the training needs of staff, coordinated the training and assessed the outcomes. Interpreted and revised existing training plans to meet the needs of the organization In a support role, surveyed the training needs of staff, assisted in providing some training and assessing the outcomes. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced various written documents related to the work of this position, including developing the following materials: 1) descriptive reports; 2) performance evaluations; 3) work improvement plans; 4) guides and studies; 5) memoranda, including justifications for acquiring new or additional material for collections; 6) specifications and/or standards; 7) technical processes; 8) project management materials; and 9) historical studies. Answer to this question is required Have extensive experience developing written materials for at least EIGHT (8) of the above. Have extensive experience developing written materials for at least SEVEN (7) of the above. Have extensive experience developing written materials for at least SIX (6) of the above. None of the Above 15 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 17 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).