Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Maintenance Mechanic without more than normal supervision? (SCREEN-OUT) Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 If you answered yes to the preceding question, select the response that best describes your highest level of experience and/or training related to the position. To receive credit for these skills, they must be documented in your application/resume. Answer to this question is required I have experience performing the duties of a Maintenance Worker without supervision. I have experience performing the duties of a Maintenance Worker with a minimum of supervision. I have experience that demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of a Maintenance Worker without more than normal supervision. I have no experience that demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of a Maintenance Worker. 3 How many years have you worked in various maintenance and/or heavy equipment operation? Answer to this question is required Ten or more years Between 5 – 10 years Between 1 – 5 years Less than 1 year 4 Do you have the physical ability to perform moderately heavy work including lifting and carrying heavy objects up to 50 lbs; working outside in all weather conditions; adapting to moderate amounts of noise and vibrations from shop machines; climbing ladders and stairs; and standing and walking for extended periods? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Please describe your experience in the area of job site safety. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had training in safe practices related to construction trades’ work I have had training related to overall safe practices for work at a remote site I have had training in the handling and disposal of hazardous materials I have knowledge of Right to Know requirements I have had training in basic first aid procedures I have had training in advanced first aid procedures I have served as a member of a job site safety group that had responsibility for implementing an organization’s safety policies and procedures I have had responsibility for training others in safe work practices I have had overall responsibility for implementing safety policies and procedures at a job site. I have no training or experience with job related safety practices 6 Which best describes you experience making minor vehicle repairs to a variety of vehicles? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed vehicle repairs on-site that do not require computerized and special diagnostic equipment. I have completed minor repairs using judgment and initiative without instructions from others. Performed minor vehicle repairs such as adding oil to engines, adding water to radiators, changing batteries and hoses. I have experience changing tires and making minor repairs on front end loaders, back hoes, man-lifts or cranes. 7 Which of the following vehicles have you operated as a regular part of your duties? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Buses under 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Trucks under 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight 15 passenger vans Sedans Fork lifts Flat beds Snow plows Buses over 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Trucks over 26,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Front-end loaders Cranes 8 Which of the following describes your crane operation experience? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted other coworkers with preparing a site for a crane operation. I have assisted a crane operator with rigging for lifts and perform signaling during the operation. I know how to read load charts and apply information to positioning and lifting with appropriate slings, hooks and shackles. I have operated portable, hydraulic cranes between 5 to 50 tons. I have operated cranes in constricted areas such as a mountainous terrain site. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience with backhoes and front end loaders? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience operating a front end loader with an attached snow plow blade on hilly terrain. I have experience with operating a front end loader to move earth, rocks and sand during road construction. I have experience operating a backhoe to clear rocks and debris from roadside ditches and culvert clean-outs. I have experience digging trenches to access utility lines for repair, install new pipes or prepare foundations for masonry walls. I have experience operating front end loaders and backhoes on mountainous terrain with limited access and space to maneuver other heavy equipment. None of the above 10 What experience do you have snow plowing? (Check all that apply) I have no snow plowing experience. I have experience plowing snow on private property in a small truck (e.g. pickup with plow attachment). I have experience plowing snow on public roads in a small truck (e.g. pickup with plow attachment). I have experience plowing snow on public roads using heavy equipment. I have experience plowing snow on unpaved roads using heavy equipment. I have experience plowing snow on unpaved mountainous roads using heavy equipment. 11 Under what road conditions do you have experience safely operating heavy equipment or non-personal passenger vehicles/light trucks—i.e. vehicles transporting personnel or equipment at a job site? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Normal highway or urban road conditions Highway or urban road in heavy rain or fog Highway or urban road in snow Unimproved mountainous road in heavy rain or fog Unimproved mountainous road in snow I have no heavy equipment operation experience 12 Do you have the ability to interpret a road map or use a GPS map locator in the delivery of supplies and/or equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following describes your knowledge of and skill in basic carpentry? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed carpentry work to construct, repair and replace basic wooden items such as shelving, doors, simple cabinets, tables, countertops, windows, trim, etc.; to perform finish carpentry work on less complex structures. I have performed carpentry work in maintenance, alteration, or repair of structures or facilities with wooden or wood substitute items on structures such as windows and door encasement, screens, window glass, interior and exterior trim, staircases, thresholds, cornices, exhibit cases, or panels. I have replaced defective siding, steps, windowsills and thresholds. I have replaced glass panes and damaged portions of wooden walks and/or steps. I have measured, cut, or installed woodwork using on-site measurements, verbal directions, simple blueprints, drawings sketches and specifications. I have used and maintained common power and hand tools such as electric drill, circular power saw, reciprocating saw, table saw, hand saws, miter saw, router, belt/oscillating sander, level, tape measure, framing square, hammers, jointer, router, squares, chisels, drills, screwdrivers, planes, chalk lines, and plumb bobs. I can identify and use carpentry materials such as wood, composites, hardware, fasteners, roof coverings, sheeting, drywall and tools such as ladders, scaffolding, pneumatic tools or drill presses. I have no carpentry experience. 14 Which of the following describes your specific knowledge of and skill in painting? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared surfaces for painting by scraping, sanding, wire brushing and, as necessary, masking areas. I have prepared and applied paint, stain or other coverings to a variety of surfaces such as: bare wood, previously painted wood, weathered wood, or metals. I have selected and used a variety of painting tools and equipment to include: drop cloths, paint rollers, brushes, paint mixer, ladders, scaffolding, putty knives, and drywall hand tools. I have cleaned and maintained painting work area, all tools, and equipment. I have used most materials of the trade such as paints, paint thinners, varnish, stains, sealers, fillers, sand paper, paint remover, abrasives (sandpaper and solvents), drywall texture, drywall mud, plaster and waterproofing materials. None of the above 15 Which of the following describes your specific knowledge and experience in basic plumbing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assembled and connected or replaced air, gas, sewage or water fixtures and facilities such as lavatories, showers, sinks, basins, storm sewers, floor drains, radiators, copper lines, hot water heaters, home-type dishwashing machines and disposal units. I have caulked and sealed union joints, faucets, and shower drains. I have removed, cleaned, and reinstalled or replaced traps, faucets, and unions; and open plugged drains by flooding vent pipes, reaming or drilling. I have repaired plumbing lines (water distribution or sewage collection lines), simple valves, etc. I have performed plumbing tasks such as replacing hose bibs, valves, nipples, unions and elbows, fixtures, toilets, flush valves, faucets, pipe and soldering copper lines. I can identify, select, and use plumbing materials such as: black iron, cast iron, brass, PVC, CPVC, copper and galvanized steel pipe, copper and other tubing; a wide variety of fittings, caulking compounds, washers, faucets, etc. I have used and maintained a variety of tools, and equipment associated with the plumbing trade such as tapes, rules, and hacksaws, hand and power pipe threaders and cutters, hand and power snakes, tubing cutters, packing and caulking irons, wrenches, augers, torches, basin wrenches, hand and power saws, etc. I have used basic plumbing tools to make repairs to water lines made of copper, PVC, CPVC, iron, and polyethylene or other tubing. I have no plumbing experience 16 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the maintenance trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drills and grinders) Plumber drain snakes Multi- meter Welding machines Oxyacetylene torch None of the above 17 Which of the following power tool(s) do you have experience using in maintenance trades? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Carpentry: Table saws, radial arm saws, skill saws, sanders (bench and hand) Metal fabrication: Band saws, drill presses, hand drills, hand grinders, cut-off saws Welding: Mig, tig, arc welders, acetylene torches Painting: Airless sprayers Tree trimming: Chainsaws None of the above 18 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions or make recommendations for design change and/or substitution of materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following types of instructions do you have experience interpreting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience interpreting and working from sketches. I have experience interpreting and working from blueprints I have experience in interpreting and working from specifications I have experience interpreting oral instructions to develop sketches I have experience in drafting and designing my own plans None of the above 20 Which of the following types of drawings do you have experience using as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Mechanical Electrical Plumbing Architectural None of the above 21 In which of the following trades do you have training, education, or on-the-job experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Carpentry Plumbing Masonry Painting Welding Roofing Electrical None of the above 22 Which of the following best describes your highest level of trades knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training Master Electrician Self taught ‘do it yourself’ type experience None of the above 23 In which of the following building environment do you have the most experience performing maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Commercial Industrial Remote Site None of the above 24 Which of the following best describes the number of moving violations you have received within the last two years? Answer to this question is required 0 1 2 More than 2 View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.