Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-10 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Electronics Technician has direct and frequent contact with institutional staff, the regional and Central Office, manufacturers, contractors, distributors and research organizations. Effective oral and written communication skills are required to effectively provide technical assistance, obtain needed information and stay abreast of new equipment/techniques used in electronics and telecommunication systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, with supervision, prepared a Statement of Work for projects/tasks assigned; and/or I have, with supervision, evaluated bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications; and/or I have, with supervision, analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications. I have prepared and presented technical reports/correspondence for presentation to non-technical personnel which resulted in improved electronics processes being implemented; and/or I have managed a new project by preparing time schedules, progress reports, and procurement documents; and/or I have prepared technical responses to contractor disputes, or Requests for Information, which justified agency/organizations position and resulted in the resolution of issues encountered. I have, with supervision, developed and facilitated training courses on a variety of new telecommunication systems being implemented for use; and/or I have, with supervision, coordinated with external personnel to resolve telecommunications issues. I have prepared a Statement of Work for projects/tasks assigned; and/or I have evaluated bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications; and/or I have analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course on a telecommunications system being implemented for use; and/or I have coordinated with external personnel to resolve critical telecommunication issues. None of the above. 5 The Electronics Technician must apply their knowledge of the theory and principles of electronics to perform the duties involved in the installation, maintenance, modification, trouble diagnosis, and subsequent repair of a wide variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned and implemented the installation of complex electronics systems (i.e., PABX telephone systems, Programmable Logic Controller Systems, Trunked Radio Systems, Networked Fire Alarm Systems, Fiber Optic Multiplex Systems); and/or I have taught/instructed an advance level course on electronics theories and principles. I have assisted in the installation of a limited number of complex electronics systems (i.e., Key telephone systems, Relay Control Logic, Basic Radio Systems, Stand alone Fire Alarm Systems, etc); and/or I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, such as consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, etc. I have completed educational requirements for an associates level or equivalent technical degree (secondary level technical school, military, etc.) in electronics principles and theory; and/or I have completed certification requirements for various systems manufacturers certification. I have assisted in the planning and implementation of the installation of complex electronics systems (software and hardware) (PABX telephone systems, Programmable Logic Controller Systems, Radio Systems, Fire Alarm Systems); and/or I have supervised lower level employees in completing technical electronics related assignments (e.g., performed routine electronics functions (diagnosed, replaced, changed defective printed circuit PC boards, etc.). I have performed routine electronics functions (i.e., replaced and/or changed defective printed circuit PC boards, etc.); and/or I have completed a Vocational training course in electronics; and/or I have completed a manufacturer's required training course that did not result in or require certification. I have completed some formal educational requirements for an associates level or equivalent technical degree (secondary level technical school, military, etc.) in electronics principles and theory; and/or I have completed certification requirements for at least one systems manufacturers certification). None of the above. 6 The Electronics Technician is considered the institution's technical expert in the areas of electronics and telecommunications systems utilized in a correctional environment. He/she is required to perform trouble diagnosis on equipment covering a broad spectrum of technologies and ranging in complexity from the relatively simple to the highly complex. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (PABX Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels/drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (breaks, light loss, microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath, harmonics) and the use of system specific diagnostic equipment. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (PABX Telephone Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (redundant networked PLC Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels/drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (breaks, light loss, microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath, harmonics) and the use of system specific diagnostic equipment. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone PLC System) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (Trunked Radio Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels/drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (breaks, light loss, microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath, harmonics) and the use of system specific diagnostic equipment. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (PABX Telephone System) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength, breaks in fiber optic material, light loss due to microbends, verify connector integrity), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (Base Radio Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (non-redundant networked PLC System) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength, breaks in fiber optic material, light loss due to microbends, verify connector integrity), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (networked digital Fire Alarm Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels/drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (breaks, light loss, microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital/analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath, harmonics) and the use of system specific diagnostic equipment. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (Radio Repeater Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength, breaks in fiber optic material, light loss due to microbends, verify connector integrity), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone mechanical Fire Alarm Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic/electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone digital Fire Alarm Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength, breaks in fiber optic material, light loss due to microbends, verify connector integrity), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). None of the above. 7 The Electronics Technician must possess current knowledge of regulations, laws, policies, standards and procedures related to electronics and telecommunications systems. He/she must be able to interpret and locally apply policies to effectively maintain, diagnose and repair electronic and telecommunications systems in a Bureau of Prisons correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched and applied National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), National Electric Code (NEC), Uniform Building Codes, etc., to plan and implement the installation of complex electronics systems, such as PABX telephone systems, Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) Systems, Radio Systems, Fire Alarm Systems, etc. I have assisted in the installation of complex electronics systems (i.e., PABX Phone Systems, PLC Systems, Radio Systems, Fire Alarms, etc.); and/or I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, such as consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, fiber optics, etc.); and/or I have attended informal seminars for Code updates and procedures (i.e.,. NEC-70, ETC.) I have assisted in the planning and implementation of the installation of complex electronics systems (i.e., PABX Telephone Systems, PLC Systems, Radio Systems, Fire Alarms, etc.); and/or I have supervised lower level employees in completing technical electronics related assignments (i.e., diagnosed, replaced, changed defective printed circuit boards, etc.). I have taught or instructed an advanced level course on electronics theories and principles; and/or I have performed inspections of systems to ensure continued compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have participated in a program review or comparable external audit of electronics and telecommunications systems operations. I have provided management with technical electronics/telecommunications information; and/or I have participated on an operational review or comparable internal audit covering the electronics and telecommunication systems area. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).