Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Problem Solve and Make Recommendations Related to Administrative and Program Needs. ** Identified administrative and program needs or problems related to an office's/ agency's operations or processes, analyzed and evaluated alternative solutions and their implications, and made recommendations for improvement. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently analyzed program and administrative policies, operations, practices and procedures in order to recommend improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/ situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. Assisted in the analysis of program and administrative policies operations, practices and procedures in order to recommend improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. Routinely contributed to the review and analysis of program and/or administrative policies, operations, practices and procedures. Gathered and compiled data and made recommendations based on research. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Serve as a Liaison and Interact Collaboratively with Others. ** Worked, cooperated, and developed professional relationships with others, including decision makers and their staffs, supervisors, managers, specialists, colleagues, and customers to achieve goals and resolve problems and issues related to program objectives. This included actively seeking others' input and contributing expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required Served as the primary contact for assessing customers' needs, worked directly with staff to determine sources for services and provided timely feedback on customers’ needs. Regularly collaborated with other organizations, and internal and external customers and coworkers in order to monitor and/or complete work. Assisted the primary contact with assessing customers' needs, under general supervision. Worked with staff to determine sources for services and provided timely feedback on customers’ needs. Regularly collaborated with other organizations or divisions within an organization and coworkers in order to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact with assessing customers’ needs, under general supervision. Worked with staff to determine sources for services and provided timely feedback to customers. Regularly collaborated with co-workers in order to complete work. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to use and manipulate computer systems and software applications. Utilized technology to support program analysis work for an organization. This includes use, ability to troubleshoot issues with software applications, monitor and apply updates and adapt application attributes to meet office workflow requirements. This Includes: 1) relational databases (e.g., Access, EmpowHR), 2) common office computing programs such as word processing, spreadsheets, presentations, email, and collaboration applications (e.g., Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, SharePoint), 3) electronic medical or health record, automated safety, or hazard abatement applications, and 4) website development and maintenance (e.g., WordPress). Answer to this question is required Has experience using, troubleshooting issues, monitoring, and applying updates to software applications. Has experience analyzing functions of the office and adapting workflows within software applications. Has direct experience with manipulating workflows in electronic medical/health record applications or other software applications. This includes experience using ALL of the tasks listed above. Has experience using, troubleshooting issues, monitoring, applying updates to software applications. Has experience analyzing functions of the office and adapting workflows within software applications. Has experience using electronic medical/health record applications. Has experience providing input into workflow changes in software applications. This includes experience using THREE (3) of the tasks listed above. Routinely used computer systems and software applications. Has experience analyzing functions of the office and adapting workflows utilizing technology. Has experience providing feedback and input into workflow changes in software applications. This includes experience using TWO (2) of the tasks listed above. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to plan, prioritize, organize, and perform duties and tasks. ** Served as the key person responsible for planning and organizing administrative activities, including: 1) balancing competing priorities by planning and organizing resources, time, and deadlines; 2) monitoring and assessing administrative activities and anticipating issues and problems; 3) setting up and modifying administrative systems and processes and planning and completing work assignments; and 4) developing and structuring work plans and establishing milestones. Answer to this question is required As the key person responsible for planning and organizing administrative activities, performed ALL of the work activities listed above. Independently executed work assignments, identifying work objectives and determining project approaches, specific project steps, input, and schedules. As the key person responsible for planning and organizing administrative activities, performed work activities 1), 2), and 3). Independently or with minimal supervision executed work assignments, including identifying work components and setting deadlines and responsibility areas. As the key person responsible for planning and organizing administrative activities, performed work activities 1) and 2) listed above. Independently or with minimal supervision executed work assignments, including identifying work components and setting deadlines and responsibility areas. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote or drafted materials such as 1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) studies and briefing materials, and 3) management reports using Microsoft Office or other comparable software products. Answer to this question is required Frequently and independently drafted, reviewed, and edited documents and reports for final distribution, including all of the above, ensuring documents met standards for clarity, consistency and format. This included researching and analyzing operational and administrative issues and incorporating graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents for a senior executive level supervisor. Frequently assisted in drafting, reviewing, and editing documents and reports, including ALL of the above, ensuring documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. This included researching and analyzing operational and administrative issues and incorporating graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents for a senior manager. Drafted or assisted in drafting, reviewing, and editing documents and reports, including at least 1) and 2) above for a senior manager. Ensured documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).