Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Contract Specialist must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people in the organization, as well as with the general public. He/she typically meet and deal with contractors, supervisory contract specialists, procurement agents, program managers, and cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have informed supervisor of issues affecting contracts; and/or I have gathered information on request for proposals; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting. I have discussed procurement topics with Financial Management personnel; and/or I have obtained wage rate information from the Department of Labor; and/or I have spoken to offerors to obtain routine information. I have contacted technical staff to determine the applicability of specifications; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions/status of a purchase; and/or I have discussed purchase orders with supervisor. None of the above. 4 Contract Specialist must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. He/she must be able to prepare reports, contract documents, performance appraisals and other correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in preparing contract price/cost proposals; and/or I have completed unauthorized commitment memos; and/or I have assisted with preparing rough drafts of Statements of Work. I have prepared contract price/cost proposals; and/or I have documented contract termination; and/or I have prepared a memorandum of understanding between two parties. I have assisted in the completion of solicitation/offer award forms, release of claim from contract closeout forms or standard modification forms; and/or I have responded to offers from Beta.Sam.gov; and/or I have provided technical information to field personnel by e-mail; and/or I have drafted instructional memorandums; and/or I have prepared inter-office memos. None of the above. 5 Contract Specialist must have knowledge of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types and the proper clauses, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and providing supervision and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared intergovernmental agreements; and/or I have organized market surveys; and/or I have checked contractors for compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards. I have prepared purchase orders and requests for purchase; and/or I have prepared amendments; and/or I have considered mandatory sources (i.e. UNICOR, Javitts-Wagner O’Day and General Services Administration Federal Supplies) for procurement actions. I have maintained purchasing files; and/or I have prepared forms to award contracts; and/or I have demonstrated proficiency in using Beta.Sam.gov and CCR (Central Contractors Registration). None of the above. 6 Contract Specialist must make independent judgements and evaluations in selecting and applying procurement regulations, and in applying clauses and provisions of contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with monitoring contracts; and/or I have processed proposals/quotes; and/or I have monitored requisitions for compliance with policy. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements or other instructional/regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simplified acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method and type of contract. I have followed provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have ensured proposals/quotes contained proper specifications; and/or I have checked construction contracts for compliance with regulations. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Contract Specialist must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people in the organization, as well as with the general public. He/she typically meet and deal with contractors, supervisory contract specialists, procurement agents, program managers, and cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed procurement topics with Financial Management personnel; and/or I have obtained wage rate information from the Department of Labor; and/or I have spoken to offerors to obtain routine information. I have informed supervisor of issues affecting contracts; and/or I have gathered information on requests for proposals; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting. I have negotiated contracts and answered offerors questions; and/or I have informed contractors of status of solicitations; and/or I have negotiated on price and terms of contracts; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions of a contract; and/or I have interviewed contractors and vendors; and/or I have conducted pre-negotiation conferences with prospective contractor(s). None of the above. 4 Contract Specialist must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. He/she must be able to prepare reports, contract documents, performance appraisals and other correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared interagency agreements; and/or I have prepared reports for Federal Procurement Data System; and/or I have prepared contract price/cost analyses; and/or I have documented contract termination; and/or I have prepared unauthorized commitment memos and justifications for other than full and open competitive documents; and/or I have prepared and submitted various procurement reports and certifications that are required by General Service Administration, Department of Justice and others. I have assisted in the completion of solicitation/offer award forms, release of claim from contract closeout forms or standard modification forms; and/or I have responded to offers from Beta.Sam.gov; and/or I have provided technical information to field personnel by e-mail; and/or I have drafted instructional memorandums; and/or I have prepared inter-office memos. I have prepared contract price/cost proposals; and/or I have documented contract termination; and/or I have prepared a memorandum of understanding between two parties. None of the above. 5 Contract Specialist must have knowledge of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types and the proper clauses, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and providing supervision and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared purchase orders & requests for purchase; and/or I have prepared amendments; and/or I have considered mandatory sources (i.e. UNICOR, Javitts-Wagner O'Day, General Services Administration Federal Supplies) for procurement actions. I have ensured contractors are in compliance with contract requirements by verifying safety issues in regard to the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards; and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents; and/or I have resolved complex issues on contract disputes, appeals, bid protests, default and termination action; and/or I have served as a technical advisor to supervisory and various technical personnel on administration procedures, contracting regulation and procurement. I have prepared intergovernmental agreements; and/or I have organized market surveys; and/or I have checked contractors for compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards. None of the above. 6 Contract Specialist must make independent judgements and evaluations in selecting and applying procurement regulations, and in applying clauses and provisions of contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have ensured proposals/quotes contained proper specifications; and/or I have checked construction contracts for compliance with regulations. I have used regulations to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish an agreement between agencies; and/or I have provided information to supervisor on service and supply contracts; and/or I have monitored and evaluated contractor’s performance; and/or I have provided expertise and procurement oversight; and/or I have provided guidance and expertise to Purchase Card holders and Approving Officials. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements or other instructional/regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simplified acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method and type of contract. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).