Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 Quality Ranking Factor: Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for the doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited educational institution, directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 4.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Staff Psychologist must be able to select, administer, score, and interpret a variety of assessments, using a multi-method approach to form a diagnosis accurately, evaluate presenting question, and communicate results in written and verbal formats appropriate to the site. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of at least five personality/intellectual assessments; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives, and staff consultation to formulate and understand the mental status and diagnostic components for a wide range of disorders. None of the above. 6 The Staff Psychologist must be able to conceptualize, plan and implement through multiple therapeutic modalities, interventions with fidelity to empirical models and flexibility to adapt where appropriate while evaluating treatment progress and modifying planning as indicated by the context or case. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. I have responded to crisis or potential crisis (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) cases non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted three types of group interventions non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and articulated clear rationale matching model to incarcerated individual in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. None of the above. 7 The Staff Psychologist must relate effectively and meaningfully with other professionals by providing expert assistance and communication (verbal and written) in response to client or system needs and goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained effective relationships with supervisors by providing weekly written updates on case load; and/or I have verbally communicated with supervisor and solicited advice/feedback regarding incarcerated individuals progress; and/or I have during peer review or group supervision, provided clinical opinion on clinical case management or treatment recommendation. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with mental health treatment teams; and/or I have provided written feedback/notes on clinical cases to the mental health treatment team; and/or I have provided verbal feedback and opinions during treatment team meetings. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with staff external to Psychology, including, Medical, Case Management, Correctional Services; and/or I have contributed relevant incarcerated individuals case data to Case Management Team meetings; and/or I have prepared reports and communicated findings to upper management on high-risk or crisis cases; and/or I have trained non-medical staff on managing a incarcerated individuals whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 8 The Staff Psychologist is oriented toward furthering his/her professional identity and growth including receiving and providing supervision, engaging in scholarship, and demonstrating his/her commitment to the development of the profession. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have with supervisory guidance, resolved situations that had custodial or treatment implications; and/or I have during clinical supervision identified complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody or care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have made a presentation on professional psychology at a scientific meeting/professional conference. I have successfully completed a class on professional psychology ethics; and/or I have successfully completed a class or had training in legal issues relevant to the practice of professional psychology; and/or I have attended a professional psychology seminar or scientific session at a conference. I have used professional experience to resolve high-stress ethically unclear situations that had custodial and treatment implications; and/or I have provided instruction to non-clinical staff about ethically maintaining the treatment and custody needs of disruptive incarcerated individuals; and/or I have identified and resolved complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody and care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have authored a paper on professional psychology in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Quality Ranking Factor: Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for the doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited educational institution, directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 5.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Staff Psychologist must be able select, administer, score, and interpret a variety of assessments, using a multi-method approach to form a diagnosis accurately, evaluate presenting question, and communicate results in written and verbal formats appropriate to the site. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychological Treatment Programs in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives, and staff consultation to formulate and understand the mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a criminal justice setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand the mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. None of the above. 7 The Staff Psychologist must be able to conceptualize, plan and implement through multiple therapeutic modalities, interventions with fidelity to empirical models and flexibility to adapt where appropriate while evaluating treatment progress and modifying planning as indicated by the context or case. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a criminal justice setting. None of the above. 8 The Staff Psychologist must relate effectively and meaningfully with other professionals by providing expert assistance and communication (verbal and written) in response to client or system needs and goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated with other disciplines (i.e., contract health care providers, Medical, Correctional Services, Case Management, etc.,) to defuse/resolve conflicts over treatment or management approaches with incarcerated individuals; and/or I have maintained verbal and written communication with upper management and other disciplines (i.e., contract health care providers, Medical, Correctional Services, Case Management, etc.,) to ensure continuity of care of high risk or crisis cases; and/or I have wrote or edited curricula to train non-medical staff on managing a incarcerated individuals whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with staff external to Psychology, including, Medical, Case Management, Correctional Services; and/or I have contributed relevant incarcerated individuals case data to Case Management Team meetings; and/or I have prepared reports and communicated findings to upper management on high-risk or crisis cases; and/or I have trained non-medical staff on managing a incarcerated individuals whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with mental health treatment teams; and/or I have provided written feedback/notes on clinical cases to the mental health treatment team; and/or I have provided verbal feedback and opinions during treatment team meetings. None of the above. 9 The Staff Psychologist is oriented toward furthering his/her professional identity and growth including receiving and providing supervision, engaging in scholarship, and demonstrating his/her commitment to the development of the profession. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have with supervisory guidance, resolved situations that had custodial or treatment implications; and/or I have during clinical supervision identified complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody or care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have made a presentation on professional psychology at a scientific meeting/professional conference. I have used professional experience to resolve high-stress ethically unclear situations that had custodial and treatment implications; and/or I have provided instruction to non-clinical staff about ethically maintaining the treatment and custody needs of disruptive incarcerated individuals; and/or I have identified and resolved complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody and care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have authored a paper on professional psychology in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. I have created or edited curriculum to train non-clinical staff about ethically maintaining the treatment and custody needs of disruptive incarcerated individuals; and/or I have authored a paper on a topic of relevance to criminal justice and professional psychology in a peer-reviewed scientific journal; and/or I have as an Employee Assistance Program coordinator/provider/member of a Crisis Support/Confrontation Avoidance Team, provided professional expertise to resolve ethically unclear situations involving staff, incarcerated individuals, or both. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).