Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one answer that describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for Accountant positions: Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an U.S. accredited college or university in accounting and/or auditing or in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting (may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law). I have a combination of education/experience - at least 4 years experience in accounting or equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that also included one of the following: 1) 24 semester hours accounting or auditing courses (can be up to 6 hours business law); 2) A certificate as C.P.A. or Certified Internal Auditor, through written exam; or 3) completed requirements for a degree, including substantial course work in accounting/auditing (15 semester hours), but less than 24 semester hours. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience reviewing and analyzing accounting/auditing reports, briefing management on findings and determining required actions? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert, consulting with management regularly in reviewing and analyzing accounting/auditing reports and briefing and working closely with them to determine required action. I review and analyze accounting/auditing reports and brief management on findings and recommend actions as a regular part of my job. I assist others in reviewing and analyzing accounting/auditing reports as a regular part of my job. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance and constructive feedback to employees. I have established and ensured deadlines for employees were met. I have planned work to be accomplished by employees. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have led and motivated employees. None of the above. 5 Which of the following responses best describes your collaboration with others or work on teams to accomplish work projects? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated collegially with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in collegially collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects. I have collegially collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a central or major part of my work. I have collegially collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 6 Which of the following leadership functions have you successfully done in projects in which you have led or were assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed and set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have planned and delegated work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical accuracy, adequacy, and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. None of the above. 7 Do you have a significant experience preparing and submitting financial reporting through Treasury&rsquo;s GTAS system or similar system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have significant experience preparing and submitting financial reporting through Treasury&rsquo;s CAR System or similar system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Apply accounting principles, theories, procedures, concepts, and practices sufficient to develop improvement recommendations for use across organizational lines. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in applying accounting principles, theories, procedures, etc. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have developed analyses and reconciliations related to accounting functions which involve more than one system and involve a large number of transactions cross-leveling interrelated accounting systems. I have proposed procedures and methods to resolve current problems and enhance the validity, accuracy, and integrity of financial and accounting data. I have conducted quantitative analysis of statistical data from accounting reports and financial statements to identify financial management problems. 10 Which of the following statements describe your work experience in the accounting field? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Generally accepted accounting principles, issued by the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB). Generally accepted accounting principles, issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASB). Accounts receivable, including billing and collection processes. Accounts payable, including payments processes and expense recognition. Cost accounting, including cost accounting standards and requirements. Budget, including the Federal budget formulation and execution process and budgetary accounting. Revenue, including revenue recognition for reimbursable agreements, contribution income, revolving funds and user fees. Reporting, including regulatory reporting requirements, e.g., Federal Agency Centralized Trial Balance System (FACTS II) (reporting and the year-end closing statement, and preparation of the Chief Financial Officers financial statements. Cash, including preparation of reports to Treasury, e.g., FMS Form 224, and monthly Treasury reconciliations. Property, Plant, and Equipment, including construction-in-progress, plant and facilities, movable equipment, and depreciation. 11 Which of the following types of financial laws and regulations have you used within a work environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Treasury Regulations Office of Management and Budget Business Rules for Intra-Governmental transactions. Office of Management and Budget Circulars and Bulletins, especially OMB 01-02 "Audit Requirements for Federal Financial Statements" and OMB 01-09 "Form and Content of Agency Financial Statements" General Accounting Office guidance, e.g., Governmental Auditing Standards (Yellow Book), Internal Control Standards Federal Appropriation Law, Comptroller General Decisions Government Standard General Ledger Financial management legislation, including the CFO Act of 1990, the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act, the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act OMB Circulars, e.g., A-123, "Management Accountability and Control" and A-127, "Policies and Standards for Financial Management Systems" Financial Accounting Standards Board policies and procedures Other financial laws and regulations None of the above 12 Which of the following statements describes your experience relating to communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating information to groups or individuals in order to instruct, or persuade regarding activities or programs. I have experience conducting formal training sessions on technical matters. I have experience representing management in meetings. I have experience representing management at conferences. I have experience conducting informal training to others on an individual basis. I have experience presenting policies to internal and external individuals or groups. I have experience communicating information via the telephone. I have experience resolving conflicts, complaints, and problems in person or on the telephone. I have completed course work or formal training in communication skills. None of the above. 13 Do you have experience, education, or training that demonstrates your skill in interpreting, writing, and applying accounting policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience using the principles, practices, concepts, laws, and regulations applicable to accounting standards, financial reporting, and fiscal control, in order to resolve controversial problems and monitor internal controls? Answer to this question is required Experience gained through working in an accounting environment analyzing, developing, and applying financial regulations, laws, legislation, and accounting standards in order to monitor internal controls, identify problems, and provide solutions for improvement. Experience gained through working in an accounting environment analyzing and applying financial regulations, laws, legislation, and accounting standards in order to monitor internal controls, identify problems, and provide solutions for improvement. Experience gained through working in an accounting environment applying financial regulations, laws, legislation, and accounting standards in order to monitor internal controls, identify problems, and provide solutions for improvement. None of the above. 15 Communicate to supervisors and senior managers on accounting system issues, associated risks, functional impact and data integrity concerns. Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in communicating about accounting systems issues, associated risk, functional impact and data integrity concerns. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this level of communication in complex situations. I have experience in communicating about accounting systems issues, associated risk, functional impact and data integrity concerns across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have communicated about accounting systems issues, associated risk, functional impact and data integrity concerns, independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this level of communication only in complex situations. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your experience identifying and assisting with the resolution of accounting problems arising from changes in financial regulations and accounting standards? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in identifying and resolving accounting system problems arising from changes in financial regulations and accounting standards. I have experience identifying and assisting with the resolution of accounting system problems arising from changes in financial regulations and accounting standards. I have assisted others with the resolution of accounting systems problems arising from changes in financial regulations and accounting standards. None of the above. 17 Which of the following statements describes your written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis in writing. Composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, management reports or articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization or material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Developed comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences for agency department leaders. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.