Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position at the journeyman level. Failure to specifically identify skills equivalent to a journeyman may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. 2 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Applicants must have&nbsp; one of the following: Applicant must possess an EPA approved, Section 608 Technician Certifications &ldquo;Type I&rdquo; and &ldquo;Type II&rdquo;. &nbsp; OR &nbsp; Possess an EPA approved, Section 608 Technician Certification &ldquo;Universal&rdquo;. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have an EPA approved, Section 608 Technician Certifications “Type I” and “Type II” OR possess an EPA approved, Section 608 Technician Certification “Universal”. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST &nbsp; electronically upload a copy of their certification at the time you apply.&nbsp; Applicants who fail to provide proof of certification will not receive consideration for this position.&nbsp; ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 HVAC Foreman must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers; and/or I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance and providing training to new workers. I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or; I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, HVAC Foreman must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. None of the above. 5 HVAC Foreman must have the ability to assemble, install and repair components, assemblies and systems of heating, refrigeration and air conditioning systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have the ability to troubleshoot HVAC equipment to determine causes of malfunctions and recommend repairs as encountered. I have performed expert level tradesman with the ability to assemble and install HVAC equipment; and/or I have diagnosed and overhauled air-conditioners and all components; and/or I have sized and specified a variety of HVAC systems for cooling and heating capacity; and/or I possess national HVAC certification. I have the ability to work on air-conditioning or refrigeration equipment seeking assistance only when encountering unusual problems. None of the above. 6 HVAC Foreman must have knowledge of and the ability to follow refrigeration and air-conditioning practices such as precise measurements and keeping tolerances, conserving materials, and applying new developments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a refrigeration or air-conditioning person for buildings; and/or I have performed assigned tasks under supervision of the section foreman; and/or I have been a sub-contractor for refrigeration or air-conditioning work in new construction; and/or I have Independently performed the tasks of the trade involved. I have worked as an assistant to a self-employed refrigeration or air-conditioning man; and/or I have performed various types of refrigeration or air-conditioning jobs as instructed. I have performed all types of refrigeration and air conditioning work; and/or I have converted ideas of builders into drawings and specifications; and/or I have independently repaired, altered, and erected equipment, per specifications and drawings. None of the above. 7 HVAC Foreman must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used engineer's blueprints and translated for material requirements; and/or I have made sketches for crew members for various sections; and/or I have checked work to ensure strict compliance with blueprint specifications; and/or I have converted ideas into drawings and specifications; and/or I have prepared my own drawings and estimated materials from specifications. I have followed blueprints and drawings for all types of refrigeration and air-conditioning tasks; and/or I have used technical manuals for specifications; and/or I have made my own drawings; and/or I have followed work orders, sketches and instructions from the section foreman to perform all types of refrigeration and air-conditioning work. I have followed blueprints and drawings to assemble prepared materials; and/or I have followed basic sketches to perform tasks. None of the above. 8 HVAC Foreman must have the knowledge and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed operators or other journeyman level workers in some phases of the operation, repair and maintenance; and/or I have performed diagnostic tests on various energy management systems; and/or I am knowledgeable and experienced in the use of (PLC) Program Logic Controllers; and/or I have used and maintained refrigerate recycling equipment and refrigerate reclaim equipment; and/or I have experience in troubleshooting or as a consultant for refrigeration or air-conditioning equipment. I have worked only as a helper or with direct supervision on a limited range of equipment; and/or I have used basic tools of the trade (gages, charging hoses, etc.). I have had shift responsibility with assistance available for unusual conditions; and/or I have independently performed major repairs with only occasional assistance; and/or I have adjusted energy management systems. None of the above. 9 HVAC Foreman must have knowledge of the properties, purpose and use of the refrigeration and air-conditioning trades materials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have inspected material to guarantee quality; and/or I have, from specifications, ordered and inspected quality of materials used; and/or I have identified and selected proper equipment and oils for system working on; and/or I have determined types of materials needed for various job; and/or I have independently estimated and ordered all materials necessary to perform a wide variety of refrigeration or air-conditioning jobs. I have worked with all types of materials used in refrigeration and air-conditioning; and/or I have assembled, as instructed, using proper size and types of equipment involved; and/or as a crew member, I have become familiar with various materials used in refrigeration and air-conditioning work. For each job, I have determined the type of materials from specifications and knowledge of the materials; and/or I have rejected inferior parts; and/or I have identified appropriate replacement parts; and/or as a sub-contractor, I have been required to determine the proper material for various types of work performed. None of the above. 10 HVAC Foreman must be able to locate system troubles, to determine the method of repair, and to use test instruments and methods. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have been able to correct simple system failures independently; and/or I have been capable of troubleshooting and repairing residential systems. I have worked as a journeyman in a variety of repair work on refrigeration or air-conditioning equipment with independent responsibility; and/or I have troubleshot and recommended methods of resolving problems encountered; and/or I have repaired average sized systems, such as a walk-in cooler. I have served as troubleshooter for a complex utilities plant; and/or I have used a computer program (laptop) to diagnose complex repairs needed on large commercial chillers; and/or I have implemented cost effective schedules to maintain/calibrate complex heating and cooling systems. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).