Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience: I have a minimum of seven years of executive-level experience in either the federal government or the private sector, overseeing and coordinating the work of organizational units directly and indirectly through subordinate supervisors, including assigning work, directing changes to programs and priorities, and evaluating performance against goals. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience: I have a minimum of seven years of executive-level experience in either the federal government or the private sector, managing employee performance and growth directly and indirectly through subordinate supervisors, including evaluating employee readiness for successive roles; recognizing accomplishments, providing feedback and development opportunities, and addressing performance/conduct issues. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience: I have a minimum of three years of executive-level experience in either the federal government or the private sector, overseeing the implementation of and improvements to recruiting, hiring, training, utilization, and succession readiness of staff. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have a minimum of three years of executive-level experience in either the federal government or the private sector, leading operational strategy and business transformation initiatives. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have executive-level experience in either the federal government or the private sector, managing the day-to-day operations of a large organizational component consisting of multiple subordinate divisions or offices. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have executive-level experience in either the federal government or the private sector, providing authoritative guidance to senior executives on laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures associated with administrative programs and operations to include facilities, human resources, procurement, and emergency preparedness. Answer to this question is required Yes No Overview of the Accomplishment Statement Questions (ASQs): Narrative responses are required for the following accomplishment statement questions (ASQs). Please provide a narrative response of up to 500 words (approximately 3,000 characters) for each ASQ. Applicants who fail to do so will limit their ability to receive maximum consideration. The ASQ narratives must be submitted through the applicant portal; Separate attachments with ASQ narratives will not be accepted. Applicants who copy and paste the same narratives for each ASQ, submit "see resume" or &ldquo;see attachment&rdquo; as a response, or submit narratives that exceed the stated word/character limits, will limit their ability to receive maximum consideration. Current or former FDIC EM and CX employees are required to provide narrative responses to the ASQs. Each accomplishment narrative should be clear and concise, and emphasize your level of responsibility, scope and complexity of programs managed, program accomplishments, policy initiatives undertaken, and the results of your actions. Focus on accomplishments. The ASQs will be evaluated and verified by a panel of job experts against pre-established scoring criteria. The FDIC senior leadership, or designee(s), will conduct a final executive interview to confirm organizational fit and commitment to American ideals. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualification or dismissal from employment following acceptance.&nbsp; 7 Describe your experience in leading efforts to gain cooperation from organizational executive leadership for support functions, activities or programs with organization-wide impact. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Describe your experience in setting long-term, strategic goals and priorities for organization-wide programs related to administrative programs and operations, acquisitions, training and development, and/or human resources. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Describe your experience in guiding and overseeing organizational efforts to formulate and implement strategies to improve the effectiveness of organizational programs. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Describe your experience in formulating and implementing organization-wide policies related to administrative and support programs. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Describe your experience in guiding organizations through periods of significant change. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Describe your experience in managing a large number of simultaneous projects of high importance to organization. Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required Overview of the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)).&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Please provide a response of up to 1300 characters (approximately 200 words) for each question.&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The FDIC prohibits consideration of characteristics unrelated to the job. Do not include information related to Race, Ethnicity, Sex, Religion, Disability, Height &amp; Weight, Sex, Marital/Familial status (e.g., marital, parental, pregnancy) or Political Affiliation in your written responses. 13 Short Essay Question 1: How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 14 Short Essay Question 2: In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?&nbsp; Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 15 Short Essay Question 3: How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?&nbsp; Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words) to each question.&lt;/strong&gt; 16 Short Essay Question 4: How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?&nbsp; Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 17 Certification for the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Yes No 18 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).