Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) or LEO (GL)applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Factory Operational Accountant communicates with the Prime Business Office, Central Office UNICOR, procurement and warehouse personnel, department heads, institution correctional staff, business office personnel and inmates, and institution executives such as the Warden. Other contacts include business managers and plant controllers at other UNICOR locations, Centralized Accounts Receivables and Payables.&nbsp; In addition, he/she may have contact with interagency contacts such as the Department of Treasury, General Services Administration, General Accounting Office and other agencies in resolving problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to routine telephone or inmate inquires; and/or I have discussed issues with regional staff to complete routine assignments; and/or I have trained new co-worker on office procedures; and/or I have verified status of accounts with vendors. I have conducted inmate safety talks; and/or I have contacted vendors to schedule raw materials for delivery; and/or I have explained institution regulation to a new staff member. I have delivered A&O lectures to inmates; and/or I have assisted co workers with processing work; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with co-workers/peers in other departments. None of the above. 6 The Factory Operational Accountant must communicate financial documents and reports to the Prime Business Office and Central Office in maintaining the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations. He/she prepares cost analysis thru written reports detailing financial impact.&nbsp; Also, he/she prepares technical documentation, monthly financial narratives, and develops instructions, contractual correspondence, and memorandums. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have drafted cover memos for the monthly balance and internal control outlining the status of the accounting operation; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have prepared responses to Controller’s request for data or audit data calls. I have assisted with composing memorandums to other department heads; and/or I have assisted with preparing monthly property management reports; and/or I have composed debit memos to vendors. I have documented telephone logs with vendors; and/or I have prepared job instructions for inmates; and/or I have prepared incident reports. None of the above. 7 The Factory Operational Accountant will apply generally accepted accounting principles and procedures, theories, concepts, and practices to evaluate production performance and assist in the formulation of pricing structures. He/she will utilize cost accounting standards to ensure accuracy of manufacturing and job order costing, cost allocation and performance measurements.&nbsp; He/she will interpret financial reports and implement accounting standards for Federal agencies.&nbsp; He/she will identify any discrepancies and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources to the Prime Business Manager, Senior Operations Managers/Warden and Central Office.&nbsp; He/she will provide management reports detailing projected operating levels for sales, earnings, overhead, inventory levels and capital expenditures for the remote factory location. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of General Accepted Accounting Principles to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices; and/or I have provided staff assistance to another office. I have reviewed obligations for accuracy in accordance with written policies; and/or I have reconciled job cost variances from the standard; and/or I have reconciled general ledger accounts balances to the open item reports; and/or I have prepared the monthly balance and internal control check. I have researched accounting issues for management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have transferred costs of B&F projects to the S&E appropriation and closed B&F projects in accordance with written policies; and/or I have applied the Federal Travel Regulations in settling travel vouchers. None of the above. 8 The Factory Operational Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to evaluate cost accounting data for planning, control, and decision‑making purpose for his/her Local Factory Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and was able to determine the action that is necessary to correct errors; and/or I have submitted prior period adjustments identifying what corrective action was needed. I have completed the job cost variance report and submitted it to the factory manager; and/or I have ensured that all payments were accurate and processed on time in accordance with prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have reviewed open payables to determine their validity; and/or I have reconciled real property, personal property, and the related depreciation accounts to subsidiary records; and/or I have prepared an income statement to reflect financial standing at year end. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check by making necessary corrections. None of the above. 9 The Factory Operational Accountant must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in the warehouse areas.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback on office projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to subordinates in resolving accounting problems and warehouse problems; and/or I have prioritized own work in meeting deadlines. I have prioritized work flow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have monitored staff/inmates to determine if supervisory instructions were followed; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to staff in resolving basic work issues; and/or I have discussed performance and pay determinations to inmate work. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) or LEO (GL)applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Factory Operational Accountant communicates with the Prime Business Office, Central Office UNICOR, procurement and warehouse personnel, department heads, institution correctional staff, business office personnel and inmates, and institution executives such as the Warden. Other contacts include business managers and plant controllers at other UNICOR locations, Centralized Accounts Receivables and Payables.&nbsp; In addition, he/she may have contact with interagency contacts such as the Department of Treasury, General Services Administration, General Accepted Accounting Principles and other agencies in resolving problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted inmate safety talks; and/or I have contacted vendors to schedule raw materials for delivery; and/or I have explained institution regulation to a new staff member. I have delivered A&O lectures to inmates; and/or I have assisted co-workers with processing work; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with co-workers/peers in other departments. I have provided guidance to subordinates on processing work; and/or I have briefed supervisor on status of workload; and/or I have coordinated an office project; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with factory manager or other department head. None of the above. 6 The Factory Operational Accountant must communicate financial documents and reports to the Prime Business Office and Central Office in maintaining the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations. He/she prepares cost analysis thru written reports detailing financial impact.&nbsp; Also, he/she prepares technical documentation, monthly financial narratives, and develops instructions, contractual correspondence, and memorandums. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a monthly cost analysis, profit margin analysis, breakeven analysis, and/or property management report; and/or I have composed memorandum to other department heads; and/or I have prepared performance evaluations for subordinates. I have assisted with composing memorandums to other department heads; and/or I have assisted with preparing monthly property management reports; and/or I have composed debit memos to vendors. I have documented telephone logs with vendors; and/or I have prepared job instructions for inmates; and/or I have prepared incident reports. None of the above. 7 The Factory Operational Accountant will apply generally accepted accounting principles and procedures, theories, concepts, and practices to evaluate production performance and assist in the formulation of pricing structures. He/she will utilize cost accounting standards to ensure accuracy of manufacturing and job order costing, cost allocation and performance measurements.&nbsp; He/she will interpret financial reports and implement accounting standards for Federal agencies.&nbsp; He/she will identify any discrepancies and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources to the Prime Business Manager, Senior Operations Managers/Warden and Central Office.&nbsp; He/she will provide management reports detailing projected operating levels for sales, earnings, overhead, inventory levels and capital expenditures for the remote factory location. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of Accepted Accounting Principles to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices; and/or I have provided staff assistance to another office. I have determined breakeven point at current and projected sales level; and/or I have calculated ratios to measure efficiencies, and/or determined general ledger account amounts were valid; and/or I have analyzed monthly financial reports; and/or I have monitored inmate payroll for unusual trends. I have researched accounting issues for management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have transferred costs of B&F projects to the S&E appropriation and closed B&F projects in accordance with written policies; and/or I have applied the Federal Travel Regulations in settling travel vouchers. None of the above. 8 The Factory Operational Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to evaluate cost accounting data for planning, control, and decision‑making purpose for his/her Local Factory Office. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and was able to determine the action that is necessary to correct errors; and/or I have submitted prior period adjustments identifying what corrective action was needed. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check by making necessary corrections. I have identified errors in the Financial Management System report and took corrective action; and/or I have reviewed general ledger to ensure account balances are correct; and/or I have compiled Accounting report statements by eliminating discrepancies; and/or I have determined costs used to forecast expenditures for quarter or year; and/or I have resolved cash differences identified in the proof check; and/or I have identified trend in late payments from vendors and took corrective action. None of the above. 9 The Factory Operational Accountant must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in the warehouse areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed current accounting operations and warehouse operations to develop new procedures or make adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have performed long range planning and goal setting for the warehouse operation; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to due date. I have provided feedback on office projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to subordinates in resolving accounting problems and warehouse problems; and/or I have prioritized own work in meeting deadlines. I have prioritized work flow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).