Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Correctional Systems Officer must communicate clearly and concisely with large groups of inmates or in one-on-one settings during stressful/non-stressful situations. They must also communicate with institution staff, federal, state and local law enforcement officials, the U.S. Attorney&rsquo;s Office, inmates and their attorneys, general public and other significant parties to obtain and exchange factual information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to state, local or other federal authorities regarding specific inmate movement or other related issues; and/or I have supervised work cadre in Receiving and Discharge (R&D); and/or I have addressed new inmates with details of Receiving and Discharge (R&D) procedures; and/or I have attended routine meetings while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS); and/or I have, while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS), reviewed and interpreted court documents relating to commitment and relayed this information. I have requested staff from Special Housing Unit (SHU) to escort inmate to mail room to receive and sign for legal mail; and/or I have called taxicab for inmate who was being released; and/or I have contacted appropriate staff to ascertain if a staff member who received mail is employed at that institution. I have counseled troubled/problematic inmates; and/or I have identified officers from outside the agency who were delivering inmates; and/or I have explained to outside officers regarding Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy regarding weapons in the institution; and/or I have provided guidance to inmates concerning jail credit; and/or I have worked in the Locator Center taking calls to determine the release of information on inmates. None of the above. 3 The Correctional Systems Officer responds to inquiries from law enforcement agencies and prepares a variety of legal forms, notifications, memoranda and letters pertaining to detainers, the Interstate Agreement on Detainers (IAD) process, sentencing of inmates and other department matters. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared detainer action letters; and/or I have prepared documents for Judgment and Commitment (J&C) files; and/or I have prepared responses to administrative remedies in response to inmate requests. I have completed standard notification forms upon escape of inmates; and/or I have provided status reports of workload to supervisor; and/or I have drafted requests to state or local law enforcement agencies for information on the status of sentences or convictions. I have written memos to staff requesting information for inmate files; and/or I have written incident reports; and/or I have composed other routine departmental correspondence. None of the above. 4 The Correctional Systems Officer must have basic computer skills in order to use and understand basic data entry systems and computer programs such as SENTRY, electronic Inmate Central File (e-ICF), BOPWare, Justice Web Interface to NCIC (JWIN), PACER, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Adobe, Outlook, and Trust Fund Payroll Accounting for Inmate Details (TRUPAID). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved information on locator center procedures pertaining to inmates; and/or I have reviewed and keyed inmate court movements; and/or I have tracked and keyed inmate movement from within institution; and/or I have, per court documents, keyed inmate’s committed, legal, and true names. As directed, I have sent advisory e-mails to institution staff and other Bureau staff regarding an inmate’s status; and/or I have used supervisor's instructions to retrieve information from SENTRY regarding Inmate Gang Affiliation Record; and/or I have followed instructions from others when retrieving/checking for inmate detainer information via SENTRY. I have generated public information inmate data; and/or I have retrieved agency manuals relating to movement of inmates; and/or I have retrieved information from computer to complete standard forms. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Systems Officer utilizes a variety of legal resources contained in agency manuals, program statements, court decisions, U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, federal sentencing laws and other related documents. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed agency procedures in completing standard forms; and/or I have used the Mail Management Manual to respond to an inmate inquiry regarding mail; and/or I have followed procedures for admission and discharge of inmates. I have processed an inmate request according to the Interstate Agreement on Detainer Act (IADA); and/or I have read and interpreted court documents and completed processing upon commitment; and/or I have conducted audits for a department program. I have updated existing monthly release lists according to agency requirements and guidelines; and/or I have consolidated and labeled inmate files prior to transfer and defiling; and/or I have read policy to interpret whether a legal document corresponded with agency policy. None of the above. 6 The Correctional Systems Officer must possess extensive knowledge of acceptable security regulations/practices and techniques in order to ensure safety of staff and prevent introduction of contraband through the U.S. Mail, inmate property or hidden within body cavities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed all new commitments by taking fingerprints, photographs, property inventory and identification cards; and/or I have prepared all incoming and outgoing U.S. Marshals’ receipts; and/or I have prepared Transfer Receipts. I have detected a concealed weapon during search of person; and/or I have differentiated legal mail and processed appropriately; and/or I have conducted physical processing and identification; and/or I have safeguarded and disbursed personal property; and/or I have intercepted inappropriate mail, such as mail from one inmate to another inmate. I have maintained security of holding cells; and/or I have sorted and screened all inmate mail and remained cognizant of letter bomb devices; and/or I have completed and returned mail rejection notices; and/or I have ensured twenty-four (24) hour delivery of first-class mail. None of the above. 7 The Correctional Systems Officer has full accountability for the organization, security, maintenance, and control of all records and files in the Records Office, Mail Room, and Receiving and Discharge (R&amp;D) area. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and maintained population index system; and/or I have electronically cataloged and filed legal documents; and/or I have determined storage for legal reference materials. I have maintained daily count book with appropriate U.S. Marshal’s receipts; and/or I have maintained logbook on Release Authorizations; and/or I have completed quarterly accountability count of all Judgement & Commitment (J&C) files. I have purged Judgement & Commitment (J&C) files of unnecessary paperwork; and/or I have created accountable mail logbook; and/or I have maintained logbook for inmate personal property. None of the above. 8 The Correctional Systems Officer must interact with male and female inmates from different backgrounds. On occasion, it is necessary to manage and control hostile and potentially violent inmates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have visually searched inmates and retrieved contraband; and/or I have traveled as escort officer with inmates on bus or via automobile; and/or I have identified and isolated potentially violent inmates. I have, per policy, directed inmate orderlies out of Receiving & Discharge (R&D) during bus/airlift movement; and/or I have fingerprinted inmate who offered little cooperation; and/or I have identified a potentially problematic inmate and retrieved Inmate Disciplinary Data to review discipline data. As instructed, I have escorted inmates to call-outs; and/or I have provided safety talks; and/or I have conducted visual search of inmates. None of the above. Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Correctional Systems Officer must communicate clearly and concisely with large groups of inmates or in one-on-one settings during stressful/non-stressful situations. They must also communicate with institution staff, federal, state and local law enforcement officials, the U.S. Attorney&rsquo;s Office, inmates and their attorneys, general public and other significant parties to obtain and exchange factual information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to state, local or other federal authorities regarding specific inmate movement or other related issues; and/or I have supervised work cadre in Receiving and Discharge (R&D); and/or I have addressed new inmates with details of Receiving and Discharge (R&D) procedures; and/or I have attended routine meetings while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS); and/or I have, while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS), reviewed and interpreted court documents relating to commitment and relayed this information. I have convinced a violent inmate to remain calm to prevent altercations or disputes; and/or I have passed along essential information to next shift of officers; and/or I have diffused situations in Receiving & Discharge (R&D) with inmates such as when one or more inmates complained about visual searches; and/or I have directed emergency crews; and/or I have explained issues regarding jail credit; and/or I have explained sentence computations to representatives in the U.S. Attorney’s Office; and/or I have explained the procedures for lodging and removing a detainer to state and local authorities; and/or I have explained the procedures for resolving untried charges through the Interstate Agreement on Detainers Act (IADA); and/or I have, while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS), participated in the institution Admission and Orientation (A&O) program for inmates. I have counseled troubled/problematic inmates; and/or I have identified officers from outside the agency who were delivering inmates; and/or I have explained to outside officers regarding Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy regarding weapons in the institution; and/or I have provided guidance to inmates concerning jail credit; and/or I have worked in the Locator Center taking calls to determine the release of information on inmates. None of the above. 3 The Correctional Systems Officer responds to inquiries from law enforcement agencies and prepares a variety of legal forms, notifications, memoranda and letters pertaining to detainers, the Interstate Agreement on Detainers (IAD) process, sentencing of inmates and other department matters. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared detainer action letters; and/or I have prepared documents for Judgment and Commitment (J&C) files; and/or I have prepared responses to administrative remedies in response to inmate requests. I have completed standard notification forms upon escape of inmates; and/or I have provided status reports of workload to supervisor; and/or I have drafted requests to state or local law enforcement agencies for information on the status of sentences or convictions. I have prepared institution supplements and/or change notices on inmate issues for the Warden’s signature; and/or I have responded to tort claims; and/or I have notified Designation & Sentence Computation Center (DSCC) to resolve any discrepancies noted in court documents related to sentence computation. None of the above. 4 The Correctional Systems Officer must have basic computer skills in order to use and understand basic data entry systems and computer programs such as SENTRY, electronic Inmate Central File (e-ICF), BOPWare, Justice Web Interface to NCIC (JWIN), PACER, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Adobe, Outlook, and Trust Fund Payroll Accounting for Inmate Details (TRUPAID). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved information on locator center procedures pertaining to inmates; and/or I have reviewed and keyed inmate court movements; and/or I have tracked and keyed inmate movement from within institution; and/or I have, per court documents, keyed inmate’s committed, legal, and true names. I have keyed payroll for inmate work cadre; and/or I have entered furlough information into SENTRY; and/or I have analyzed court documents and entered detainer or notification information into SENTRY; and/or I have used Outlook to complete and distribute daily rosters, court receipts or waitlists throughout the institution; and/or I have disseminated sensitive information regarding designations, redesignations, and transfer of inmates. I have generated public information inmate data; and/or I have retrieved agency manuals relating to movement of inmates; and/or I have retrieved information from computer to complete standard forms. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Systems Officer utilizes a variety of legal resources contained in agency manuals, program statements, court decisions, U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, federal sentencing laws and other related documents. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed agency procedures in completing standard forms; and/or I have used the Mail Management Manual to respond to an inmate inquiry regarding mail; and/or I have followed procedures for admission and discharge of inmates. I have processed an inmate request according to the Interstate Agreement on Detainer Act (IADA); and/or I have read and interpreted court documents and completed processing upon commitment; and/or I have conducted audits for a department program. I have investigated information collected from staff, inmates, laws and court documents to resolve a variety of administrative remedies; and/or I have researched sources, including the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, agency/directives; and/or I have monitored temporary releases such as writs and Interstate Agreement on Detainers. None of the above. 6 The Correctional Systems Officer must possess extensive knowledge of acceptable security regulations/practices and techniques in order to ensure safety of staff and prevent introduction of contraband through the U.S. Mail, inmate property or hidden within body cavities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed all new commitments by taking fingerprints, photographs, property inventory and identification cards; and/or I have prepared all incoming and outgoing U.S. Marshals’ receipts; and/or I have prepared Transfer Receipts. I have detected a concealed weapon during search of person; and/or I have differentiated legal mail and processed appropriately; and/or I have conducted physical processing and identification; and/or I have safeguarded and disbursed personal property; and/or I have intercepted inappropriate mail, such as mail from one inmate to another inmate. I have assessed inmates to determine potential medical problems, assaultive behavior, psychological well-being, anxieties associated with confinement, and separation needs; and/or I have, prior to arrival to Receiving & Discharge (R&D), completed checks for witness security inmates; and/or I have operated biological/chemical detection system for all mail and packages. None of the above. 7 The Correctional Systems Officer has full accountability for the organization, security, maintenance, and control of all records and files in the Records Office, Mail Room, and Receiving and Discharge (R&amp;D) area. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and maintained population index system; and/or I have electronically cataloged and filed legal documents; and/or I have determined storage for legal reference materials. I have developed a computer program to track electronic and paper files; and/or I have maintained electronic program for tracking files; and/or I have created a program to track workflow and assignments; and/or I have developed a manual and/or computer program to facilitate the archiving and retrieval of files. I have purged Judgement & Commitment (J&C) files of unnecessary paperwork; and/or I have created accountable mail logbook; and/or I have maintained logbook for inmate personal property. None of the above. 8 The Correctional Systems Officer must interact with male and female inmates from different backgrounds. On occasion, it is necessary to manage and control hostile and potentially violent inmates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have visually searched inmates and retrieved contraband; and/or I have traveled as escort officer with inmates on bus or via automobile; and/or I have identified and isolated potentially violent inmates. I have, per policy, directed inmate orderlies out of Receiving & Discharge (R&D) during bus/airlift movement; and/or I have fingerprinted inmate who offered little cooperation; and/or I have identified a potentially problematic inmate and retrieved Inmate Disciplinary Data to review discipline data. I have recognized psychological anxiety among inmates and separated accordingly; and/or I have taken proper action when two inmates became involved in physical altercation in the presence of other inmates; and/or I have appropriately summoned medical attention when inmate developed seizure, in presence of other inmates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).