Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodology of music.** Applied knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodology of music to develop programs for concert series and conducted research in the field of music. Answer to this question is required Utilized extensive and in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodology of music to conceive, plan and develop programs for concerts reflecting different styles and genres of music and to conduct research supporting these activities. Knowledge of music may have been obtained by working in a professional environment where you were primarily responsible for producing programs for theaters and/or concert halls or analogous experience. Utilized broad knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodology of music to develop programs for concerts reflecting different styles and genres of music and to conduct research supporting these activities. Knowledge of music may have been obtained in an academic or cultural institution, community center, or other environment where you had limited responsibility for developing programs for theaters or concerts halls or analogous experience. Utilized basic knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodology of music to implement existing plans for programs for theaters or concert halls reflecting different styles and genres of music and to conduct research supporting these activities. Knowledge of music may have been obtained while learning to play one or more instruments and responsibility for developing programs for concerts may have been obtained in an amateur play or music environment. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of concert and other public programs production.** Applied knowledge of music principles, concepts, and methodologies to support the production of concerts and other events of moderate complexity. This includes assisting in the following : 1) programming, 2) project budgets, 3) artist and production agreements, 4) planning, organizing, researching, and executing special displays, 5) published writings or recordings, presentation programs, and other special projects, 6) ticketing, 7) front of house services, 8) donor engagement, and 9) technical production. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Applied extensive and in-depth knowledge of music principles, concepts, and methodologies to support the production of concerts and other events of moderate complexity in the field. In doing so preformed ALL the above. Applied extensive and in-depth knowledge of music principles, concepts, and methodologies to support the production of concerts and other events of moderate complexity in the field. In doing so preformed SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) the above. Applied extensive and in-depth knowledge of music principles, concepts, and methodologies to support the production of concerts and other events of moderate complexity in the field. In doing so preformed SIX (6) the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to communicate in writing.** Assisted in preparing various written documents to include the following: 1) printed programs (including program notes and layout), 2) blogs, 3) marketing materials, 4) other official publications, 5) program notes on scripts, concerts, and broadcast projects 6) scholarly works on music, 7) content creation for social media platforms, 8) feature stories, 9) reports on acquisitions, and general correspondence. Answer to this question is required Assisted in preparing various written documents to including ALL of the above. Assisted in preparing various written documents to including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. Assisted in preparing various written documents to including SIX (6) of the above. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to perform research** Conducts research for scholarly and general audiences. Assists in planning, organizing, researching, and executing special displays, published writings or recordings, presentation programs, and special projects. Provides subject expertise and knowledge of Copyright law to support the contracting, licensing, and publication of media projects Answer to this question is required Independently conduct research for diverse audiences and supports the planning, execution, and licensing of media projects, providing expertise in copyright law. Limited supervision conduct research for diverse audiences and supports the planning, execution, and licensing of media projects, providing expertise in copyright law. With direct supervision assists in planning, organizing, researching, and executing special displays, published writings or recordings, presentation programs, and special projects. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to meet and deal with others. Developed and maintained relationships with various in-house organizations, other government agencies, contractors, artists and their managers, media organizations, and private companies concerning work accomplished by an organization. Answer to this question is required Independently developed and maintained contacts and interacted with managers, peers, artists and their managers, media organizations, and others inside and outside an organization holding divergent and sometimes opposing views and objectives to obtain and exchange information, answer questions, and explain established policies, procedures, and/or standards. Coordinated projects with groups, and media organizations, and exchanged general and technical information. Maintained contacts and interacted with managers, peers, artists and their managers, media organizations, and others inside and outside an organization to obtain and exchange information, answer questions, and explain established policies, procedures, regulatory requirements, and/or standards. Coordinated projects with groups and/or media organizations and exchanged general and technical information. Maintained contacts and interacted with managers, peers, artists, and others inside an organization to obtain and exchange information, answer questions, and explain established policies, procedures, regulatory requirements, and/or standards. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to read and understand a modern European language. Read modern European languages including Italian, French, German, Spanish, or Russian to conduct research in the field of music. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience reading and understanding TWO (2) OR MORE of the modern European language listed above to read and utilize scholarly books and articles in conducting research in the field of music. Has extensive experience reading and understanding ONE (1) modern European language listed above to identify various documents and conduct research in the field of music. Has basic experience reading and understanding at least ONE (1) modern European language to identify musical documents and conduct research in the field of music. None of the above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).