Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 What is your level of experience in explaining, defending, negotiating and coordinating program policies and activities with a variety of stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have no experience. I have prepared and defended objectives/talking points in negotiating over projects that involved a small number of internal participants. I have prepared and defended objectives/talking points in negotiating over large projects that involved participants with diverse, conflicting interests. I have led or was a key participant in negotiations over large complex projects that involved international and/or top domestic decisionmakers. 5 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 6 With which of the following program management techniques do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones Results Based Management None of the above 7 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in managing and coordinating programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices and procedures. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices and procedures. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above 8 I have knowledge of the process required and demonstrated ability to manage the resource implications of policy and management initiatives, including long range planning, organizing, implementing, directing and negotiating for resources in support of the Department's global presence. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of education, training and/or experience in applying knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents to assess programs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have routinely and independently performed this task on a regular basis as part of the job. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. 10 Which of the following forms of communication have you used to communicate technical information? Answer to this question is required Formal presentations Informal presentations Information memoranda Policy or other briefing documents Journals News media Instructional aids None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of Department of State operations and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the Department of State`s operations or objectives. I have knowledge of the Department of State`s operations and objectives, but not through direct work experience. I have been exposed to the Department of State`s operations or objectives through my participation on an interagency group. I have been exposed to the Department of State`s operations or objectives through my work experience in a Government agency other than Department of State. I have been exposed to the Department of State`s operations or objectives through my work experience as a Department of State employee or contractor. 12 Please select the answer below that best describes your experience with interpreting complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance (e.g., Prompt Pay, FAR, OMB) to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impact to management. I have reviewed proposed and enacted legislation to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impact to management, and been assigned responsibility for developing policy to implement. I do not have experience at performing this task. 13 Which of the following best reflect your ability to perform quantitative analysis and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have formal undergraduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in a work situation. I have formal graduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in work situations. I have formal education / training and work experience in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Performing quantitative analysis and evaluation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this taks routinely and independently. I have trained others in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 15 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience resolving conflicts? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicts. I have experience resolving conflicts that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience resolving conflicts that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience resolving conflicts that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 17 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation Recruitment / hiring Disciplinary action Employee recognition Assigning and delegating work Establishing performance standards Team building Time and attendance Scheduling resources Staffing Conflict resolution Coaching and/or counseling Labor relations Employee development / training Mentoring None of the above 18 I have direct experience with leading a team that included: Answer to this question is required Clarifying the team purpose. Translating the organization`s mission into a team mission. Quantifying team goals. Creating standard team practices. Establishing communication processes among the team members. Leading team meetings. None of the above. 19 Which leadership skills have you routinely applied in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties to meet an objective. Provided guidance to others on how to handle unpleasant or difficult interactions. Persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult or hostile. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with people who had different perspectives or cultural backgrounds to achieve goals / objectives. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a goal / objective. Interacted with others to identify common interests. Led by example. None of the above. 20 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 21 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.