Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Applicants applying for the GS-15 grade level must meet the following requirements: Have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service as described below: IT SPECIALIST COMPETENCY REQUIREMENTS: Attention to Detail - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant keeps abreast of latest technology, information, research, etc., to maintain knowledge in field of expertise (for example, reads trade journals, participates in professional/technical associations, maintains credentials). Customer Service -This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant promotes or develops and maintains good working relationships with key individuals or groups. Oral Communication - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant serves on panels, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. Problem Solving - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant monitors current trends or events (for example, technological, economic, political, social, educational, or employment trends or events) and applies the information as appropriate. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS: &nbsp;Specialized experience is: Serving as a recognized authority in designing, developing, managing, and directing multiple highly complex IT and information security projects, including large-scale, public-facing applications serving a large number of users. This includes developing digital products using server-side programming, relational and/or non-relational databases, test-driven development, and modern frameworks or languages such as Python, Go, JavaScript, TypeScript, Node.js, React, Ruby on Rails, Terraform, Next.js, HTML/CSS, or Rust; Integrating security and privacy best practices throughout the software development lifecycle, performing technical risk assessments, resolving complex cybersecurity or compliance issues, and advising leadership and stakeholders on security strategy, identity and access management, and regulatory compliance; Leading and mentoring cross-functional teams at scale in highly complex, dynamic and agile environments to include planning, developing, and executing large-scale critical IT software projects; and Serving as a principal technical liaison to internal and external stakeholders, including executive leadership and customer agencies to communicate highly technical information, develop cooperative relationships, resolve conflicting priorities, and provide authoritative guidance on software engineering, security, and IT program strategy. 1 I have both experience demonstrating all four competencies and I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal services. Answer to this question is required True False Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR, Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No' to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and/or understand the information provided above. View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).