Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education or experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience includes: performing work directly related to construction; or responsible for interpreting plans & specifications, inspecting materials and workmanship, and insuring adherence to safety requirements; or supervisor in construction work, responsible for interpreting plans & specifications, inspecting workmanship for adherence to plans and specifications. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with coordinating and evaluating building phases? Answer to this question is required I have coordinated and evaluated single phases of construction I have coordinated and evaluated multiple phases of construction I have coordinated and evaluated multiple phases of construction for more than one project simultaneously I have not coordinated and evaluated phases of construction 4 Which of the following categories best described the type of buildings you have experience managing or overseeing construction or renovation of? Answer to this question is required Homes Schools Commercials properties Office buildings Museums Other cultural facilities I do not have experience managing or overseeing construction or renovation 5 Which of the following best reflects your level of involvement performing building inspections during construction or renovation? Answer to this question is required I have performed inspections as a member of an inspection team. I have led a team performing inspections. I have performed inspections as an individual. I have not participated in building inspections, but am willing to learn. 6 Which of the following content areas do you have experience evaluating against? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Compliance with contract requirements Compliance with engineering/architectural standards Compliance with Federal, state and local construction codes None of the above 7 Which of the following types of individuals do you have experience communicating verbally with as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professors and university advisers Administrative staff Architects and engineers Construction contractors Construction management staff Museum professionals None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your experience delivering presentations? Answer to this question is required I have delivered presentations in an academic setting. I have delivered and defended a design presentation to an audience of experts or faculty in an academic setting. I have assisted with delivering a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I have independently delivered a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I do not have experience making presentations 9 In which of the following settings do you have experience gathering factual information through conversations or interviews for use in projects or reports? Answer to this question is required Academic settings as a student. A professional settings as an intern or employee. Both academic as well as professional settings. None of the above. 10 Which of the following tasks have you performed as part of your job on a regular basis? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Composed job related written correspondence Kept logs or records in spread sheet format Writing technical reports for the purpose of documentation or further investigation Prepared formal written instructions or procedures for use by others Created formal written guidelines or policies that impact others performance None of the above 11 Which of the following tasks have you performed as they relate to construction project schedules? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created construction schedules I have read and followed construction schedules I have evaluated construction schedules for logic errors and time line conflicts I have managed construction schedules keeping projects on time I have analyzed and updated construction schedules based on project progress I do not have experience with construction project schedules 12 Have you worked as a construction manager in a Design or Construction program on one or more projects greater than $10 million that had national historic significance (i.e., public buildings, offices, academic buildings, medical or research laboratories, hospitals, etc.)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions or make recommendations for design change and/or substitution of materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following best described your experience working with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR)? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge of or experience with FAR. I have a basic knowledge of FAR but have never used it on the job. I have used the FAR as it relates to developing contract proposals. I have used the FAR as it relates to management of Federal contracts. I have used the FAR as it relates to developing contract proposals and management of Federal contracts. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience providing information and instructions to staff and contractors? Answer to this question is required I have communicated effectively as a member of a team I have provided job related advice or recommendations to coworkers I have provided formal technical instructions to others I have developed work assignments for and coordinated others as supervisor None of the above 16 Have you presented or briefed complex project, program, information, or decision issues to upper management, agency heads, or department level clients or users? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following best described your level of involvement in project meetings? Answer to this question is required I have attended project meetings to receive instructions I have participated in project meetings by offering input I have assisted in the coordination and management of project meetings I have coordinated and led project meetings I do not have experience with project meetings but am willing to learn 18 Which of the following best describes your work experience related to this job? Answer to this question is required I have worked as an individual I have worked as a member of a team I have managed a group of contractors I have supervised construction employees I do not have experience related to this job Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.