Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Captain must manage and coordinate efforts in crisis management situations impacting both the safety and security of staff and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have activated a command center, hostage negotiations, or tactical operations center (i.e., during a natural disaster or riot); and/or I have provided training for department heads, duty officers, Executive Staff or others in the operation of the command center; and/or I have updated existing emergency management procedures; and/or I have provided emergency management training during Annual Training or equivalent; and/or I have implemented new emergency management procedures received from the national level; and/or I have initiated a staff recall procedure during an institution disturbance such as a homicide, rival gang conflict, riot, racial altercation, or major fire; and/or I have developed Memorandums of Understanding with local law enforcement; and/or I have coordinated mock exercises or crisis management drills with various departments. I have reviewed contingency plans following an emergency; and/or I have maintained existing contingency plans; and/or I have submitted plans as directed; and/or I have assisted in leading a mock scenario. I have provided training to subordinate staff at Lieutenants’ meeting; and/or I have ordered a lock down after inmates became disruptive during a work stoppage; and/or I have guided efforts to apprehend an escapee by ordering an emergency count, manning of escape posts, and dispatching officers; and/or I have debriefed staff after a serious situation; and/or I have led a mock exercise/scenario (i.e., hostage situation, natural disaster, work strike). None of the above. 5 The Captain must independently create comprehensive reports, write plans and make recommendations in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written and submitted nominations to the Incentive Awards Committee; and/or I have prepared the results of a written investigation that was used in a court case or as findings by the Disciplinary Hearing Officer; and/or I have prepared responses to Administrative Remedies; and/or I have developed position descriptions; and/or I have drafted national award nominations; and/or I have assisted with preparing the annual and quarterly budget for the department. I have provided comments to a draft of national policy from headquarters; and/or I have written responses to inquiries concerning institutional security and operations; and/or I have prepared an accreditation response; and/or I have researched and responded to complex congressional correspondence/inquiries; and/or I have completed in-depth investigative reports; and/or I have responded to program review findings; and/or I have prepared written summaries of complex emergency situations (on-going investigation) for local Executive Staff; and/or I have developed the institution’s budget. I have reviewed/corrected inter-office letters or memos prepared by subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed and revised an agency newsletter article; and/or I have made changes to a memo to staff/inmates written by Lieutenant advising them of new procedures or policies; and/or I have reviewed inmate incident reports. None of the above. 6 The Captain must convey information to others in order to maintain effective operations of the institution in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a budget meeting; and/or I have participated in a salary workforce utilization meeting; and/or I have provided briefings during small informal department staff meetings. I have briefed Executive Staff on institution policies, procedures and/or programs; and/or I have provided training to management officials; and/or I have provided guidance to staff regarding implementation of new policies/procedures. I have given presentations/lectures to local community sites or boards on correctional issues; and/or I have participated on a taskforce that produced a program or a resolution to a correctional issue; and/or I have worked directly with local law enforcement during a crisis situation; and/or I have conducted prison tours for judges, or other outside groups such as foreign government officials; and/or I have participated in meetings and conferences in which policies are formulated, decisions rendered, budgetary matters discussed, and plans are made for administrative operations. None of the above. 7 The Captain must have a comprehensive knowledge of all aspects of the institution as well as how they relate to the total correctional process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured audits are performed correctly; and/or I have performed a security audit; and/or I have assisted with writing emergency plans in an institution; and/or I have conducted training for staff to properly respond to an emergency. I have enforced agency security regulations and procedures; and/or I have overseen internal security audits; and/or I have maintained a perpetual audit system; and/or I have instructed staff in response to emergencies, (i.e., weather, disturbance, inmate discord) compiled reports, and instructed subordinate staff in all areas of custody; and/or I have supervised the administration of internal training programs (i.e., Lieutenant Modules, Correctional Training Officer Program). I have overseen the operational review of program areas other than Correctional Services and developed a comprehensive corrective action plan to prevent reoccurrence of deficiencies as the Reviewer-in-Charge; and/or I have identified areas of weaknesses in security, or operational procedures; and/or I have reviewed and approved lesson plans for Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I for new employees, contractors or equivalent; and/or I have provided institutional staff with updates on local and national policy; and/or I have developed plans to implement organizational changes at the local level based upon national directive. None of the above. 8 The Captain must assign responsibility and delegate authority to subordinates to accomplish tasks in a timely manner and make most efficient use of resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions correctly; and/or I have assisted staff with career development; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates working with on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have met with employees on a regular basis to provide feedback on their performance and take corrective action where warranted; and/or I have referred a subordinate to the Employee Assistance Program for help after noticing decrease in productivity or unusual behavior patterns; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit. I have directed teams in the gathering of evidence after major altercation/disturbance; and/or I have identified inmates who should be moved to higher security level institutions after reviewing evidence/documents; and/or I have directed a staff emergency squad to secure a housing unit; and/or I have directed the emergency medical evacuation of inmates during a crisis; and/or I have provided supervision of fellow Department Heads and subordinates. I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions; and/or I have delegated authority to subordinate employees to accomplish the mission of the department/unit/office. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).