Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher. I am currently at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement because I am below the GS-02 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher. Within the past 52 weeks I have been at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-02. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Case Managers must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities for tasks for all case management functions. They may occasionally act in the capacity of Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator and are simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining their caseload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have submitted recurring information on time; and/or I have keyed time and attendance records timely and efficiently; and/or I have ensured supervisor is aware of commitments, meetings and travel agenda. I have effectively managed a workload involving multiple supervisors; and/or I have participated in Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC) hearings; and/or I have used various tracking methods to complete assignments. I have requested assistance through supervisor on routine tasks in order to work on higher priority tasks; and/or I have maintained routine workload; and/or I have assisted in making travel plans; and/or I have organized a database in accordance with established instructions. None of the above. 5 Case Managers are required to communicate with inmates, family and friends of inmates, co-workers, and Federal, State and private sector employees in order to establish effective program goals, prepare inmate histories and counsel inmates during their incarceration. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided basic instruction to an inmate work detail; and/or I have assisted in the control center; and/or I have disclosed information such as directions, visiting hours, mail procedures, etc., in response to verbal inquiries. I have contributed information during informal meetings or discussions; and/or I have conveyed non-technical information to others on procedures; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process. I have explained meal time to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have assisted the Front Lobby Officer in visitor processing; and/or I have communicated with co-workers; and/or I have answered routine questions. None of the above. 6 Case Managers are required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner. This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and congressional requests and inquiries. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have filled in basic information on form letters; and/or I have prepared response to Inmate Request to Staff Member (BP-148); and/or I have completed property inventory forms. I have assisted in the preparation of: BP-409-Transfer Requests; and/or I have inserted case specific information into pre-established form letters; and/or I have prepared workload status reports. I have prepared incident reports; and/or I have prepared purchase requests; and/or I have maintained written logs. None of the above. 7 Case Managers must be able to research and interpret a variety of Correctional Program policies and procedures in order to apply sound case management practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have asked journeymen level staff questions regarding policy; and/or I have referred to post orders; and/or I have became familiar with an Institution Supplement. I have answered routine phone inquiries; and/or I have reported safety violations; and/or I have referred an inmate to Health or Psychology Services; and/or I have prepared standard reports in compliance with established procedures. I have explained policy to inmates; and/or I have recommended actions in compliance with updated policy; and/or I have answered non-routine questions regarding policies or programs. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Case Managers must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities for all case management functions. They may occasionally act in the capacity of Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator and are simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining their caseload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have requested assistance through a supervisor on routine tasks in order to work on higher priority tasks; and/or I have maintained a routine workload; and/or I have assisted in making travel plans; and/or I have organized a database in accordance with established instructions. I have scheduled program reviews and/or initial classifications for inmates/clients; and/or I have utilized a database to track and prioritize work/caseload; and/or I have chaired a Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC) hearing. I have effectively managed a workload involving multiple supervisors; and/or I have participated in Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC) hearings; and/or I have used various tracking methods to complete assignments. None of the above. 6 Case Managers are required to communicate with inmates, family and friends of inmates, co-workers, and Federal, State and private sector employees in order to establish effective program goals, prepare inmate histories and counsel inmates during their incarceration. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided basic instruction to an inmate work detail; and/or I have assisted in the control center; and/or I have disclosed information such as directions, visiting hours, mail procedures, etc., in response to verbal inquiries. I have contributed information during informal meetings or discussions; and/or I have conveyed non-technical information to others on procedures; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process. I have contributed case information during a meeting; and/or I have assisted senior staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have conveyed technical information to others. None of the above. 7 Case Managers are required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner. This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and congressional requests and inquiries. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the preparation of BP-409's, Transfer Requests; and/or I have inserted case specific information into pre-established form letters; and/or I have prepared workload status reports. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared transfer requests (BP-409's); and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments within the organization. I have prepared incident reports; and/or I have prepared purchase requests; and/or I have maintained written logs. None of the above. 8 Case Managers must be able to research and interpret a variety of Correctional Program policies and procedures in order to apply sound case management practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered routine phone inquiries; and/or I have reported safety violations; and/or I have referred an inmate to Health or Psychology Services; and/or I have prepared standard reports in compliance with established procedures. I have explained policy to inmates; and/or I have recommended actions in compliance with updated policy; and/or I have answered non-routine questions regarding policies or programs. I have identified and initiated corrective action as a result of researching a policy; and/or I have implemented a local operating procedure in compliance with national directives; and/or I have provided training to other staff on institution policy and procedures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).