Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following statements best describes your experience advising individuals on procedures for obtaining repairs, maintaining, and/or procuring equipment? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience initiating and maintaining systems for review, verification, and tracking of bills for vendor and contract services? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience formulating and monitoring budgets and other resource requirements (e.g., staffing, equipment) for support services areas? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 4 Do you have experience obtaining a variety of expendable and nonexpendable items and materials through central supply channels, direct purchase or more complex formal procurement processes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience conducting inventories of agency property ensuring proper accounting, documentation, and disposal? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your experience maintaining depreciation accounts, repair costs, and records of property? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 7 Which of the following statements best describes your experience writing procurement requests for the acquisition of equipment and services: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 8 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 9 In which of the following administrative areas do you have experience providing support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience recommending actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 11 Select the choice that BEST describes you experience in reviewing contractor invoices for accuracy and compliance with terms of the contract: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 12 From the following list, indicate the types of customers that you communicate with on a day-to-day basis in providing support services: Answer to this question is required Senior level agency officials Non government officials Government officials Vendors Customers internal to the organization Customers external to the organization None of the above 13 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: Answer to this question is required I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience evaluating existing or new support services programs to determine how they can best be used to support or reengineer the work of an organization? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 15 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your experience investigating circumstances to determine and recommend alternative courses of action? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.