Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have experience that is indicative of senior executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under Executive Core Qualifications and Technical Qualifications. I also have at least one year of that experience that was at or above the GS-15 grade level in the Federal service, or its equivalent with state or local government, the private sector, or nongovernmental organization. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently serving under a career Senior Executive Service appointment, eligible for reinstatement into the Senior Executive Service, or have you successfully completed a Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program approved by OPM? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Current SES Career Appointees, SES Reinstatement Eligibles, and OPM Candidate Development Program graduates are not required to complete the Executive Core Qualifications listed below; however, you must address the mandatory technical competencies. The Core Focus of the ECQs are cross-cutting and should be addressed within your two-page resume.&nbsp; The following are the foundation for success in each of the ECQs below: Constitutional fidelity and service to the American people; Efficient resource use, cost-saving, process modernization; Technical excellence and high-quality performance; Team leadership, accountability, performance culture; and Meeting and exceeding mission-aligned goals. ECQ 1 - This core qualification encompasses the ability to uphold the Constitution and American governing ideals - a foundation for federal leadership. ECQ 2 - This core qualification involves the ability to demonstrate effective resource management, budget discipline, waste reduction, and leveraging technology or process improvements. ECQ 3 - This core qualification stresses the delivering of exceptional quality work through technical skill, knowledge, and reliable performance. ECQ 4 - This ECQ involves the ability to inspire and guide teams toward mission objectives while fostering accountability, performance, and adaptability. ECQ 5 - This core qualification involves consistently delivering outcomes aligned with organizational goals and the broader mission set by leadership. MANDATORY TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS:&nbsp; All candidates must address the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications within their two-page resume. Demonstrated expertise and comprehensive knowledge of multiple technologies and platforms in order to plan, direct and execute major information technology programs; develop and implement information technology systems methodology for integration with strategic planning, and ongoing evaluation of agency systems and data requirements. Demonstrated experience in successfully managing an organization&rsquo;s risk and vulnerabilities assessments of deployed or planned information systems, including identifying vulnerabilities, security risks and protections needed to secure and maintain the integrity of cybersecurity operations and IT systems and compliance programs. Demonstrated leadership and experience in successfully managing agency and/or corporate level information technology (IT) and information management functions in areas such as IT policy and governance, information technology architecture, cybersecurity, IT planning and investment control, network service, data management, systems administration, program management, Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes, Agile thinking methodologies, acquisitions planning, and customer support. Demonstrated ability to develop strategic plans, policies, standards, and programs in conformance with statutory, executive, and/or other regulatory requirements to improve the management and utilization of information and IT resources; promote IT system solutions; and lead organizational changes that take best advantage of state-of-the-art advances in information technology. Senior-level expertise in providing innovative leadership and strategic vision in developing, directing, and implementing enterprise-scale IT services, infrastructure, cybersecurity, and support organizations, providing a high level of security and availability, and serving clients spanning multiple organizations, business units and locations. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).