Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A doctoral degree in Pharmacy that is recognized by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. OR Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree, Ph.D., Pharm.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. AND B. Licensure: Applicants also must be licensed to practice pharmacy in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Experience: Applicant&rsquo;s qualifications background must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary to perform the work of the position. Pharmacy work requires knowledge of the use, clinical effects, and composition of medications, including their chemical, biological, and physical properties. Qualifying professional pharmacy experience may involve, but is not limited to: Dispensing medications prescribed by physicians and other health practitioners and providing information to health practitioners and patients about proper usage of medications and side effects; Evaluating medication use patterns and outcomes for patients in hospitals or managed care organizations; Performing administrative, consultative, or staff advisory work for a medical facility&rsquo;s pharmacy program; Planning, monitoring and evaluating medication programs or regimens; Establishing medication-handling procedures for the storage and preservation of medications; Researching medical literature and/or clinical medication information to provide accurate responses to inquiries; and/or Maintaining all medication records required by law. AND D. Medical Requirement: Applicants must be able to distinguish shades of color. NOTE: Employees currently assigned to positions in this occupational series as of September 2017 will be considered to have met the basic requirements for the position occupied. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education and licensure requirement, applicants must have one year of professional pharmacy experience, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts and pharmacy license documentation at the time you apply. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 5.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 Chief Pharmacists, as well as all employees working in a correctional environment, must react to crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have notified the supervisor/Correctional Services Supervisor after detaining an inmate found picking a lock; and/or I have taken corrective action to contain a small fire; and/or I have intervened to prevent a fight between inmates; and/or I have assisted in coordinating efforts to move a critically injured inmate from housing unit to an ambulance. I have effectively calmed a volatile inmate; and/or I have during an institution altercation or disturbance, filled emergency prescription due to life-threatening situation; and/or I have, during an incident in the medical area, directed pharmacy staff and other medical staff on specific procedures to be taken; and/or I have participated in an escape hunt to capture escapees. I have conducted confrontation avoidance with non-compliant inmates; and/or I have used communication skills to calm a disruptive inmate; and/or I have reported a dangerous inmate to correctional staff with recommendations for managing the inmate; and/or I have trained as a hostage negotiator; and/or I have managed a staff crisis referring them to an Employee Assistance and/or counseling program. None of the above. 7 Chief Pharmacists must have the ability to provide advice and instructional information to patients, medical staff, and other institution personnel in pharmaceutical matters, as well as security and other areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have informed supervisor on an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed probation officers on inmate case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered. I have given briefings to supervisors on sensitive issues; and/or I have guided workgroups in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have given presentations and responded to related questions; and/or I have coordinated tours and/or developed a clinical pharmacy rotation with a school of pharmacy; and/or I have conversed with others within professional/community organizations to resolve issues; and/or I have handled a difficult situation using tact and diplomacy; and/or I have resolved complex conflicts among supervisors, co workers and/or peers. I have presented complex and/or technical information to external personnel which resulted in case resolution; and/or I have participated on agency advisory panel; and/or I have lectured to other professionals and community groups; and/or I have taught a course or presented technical information to an audience; and/or I have served as a union or management official conducting and participating in meetings. None of the above. 8 Chief Pharmacists must have the ability to properly select, mix, and dispense a variety of therapeutic agents. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I possess knowledge of drugs that do not have approval for general use; and/or I have selected appropriate formula or agent from among those widely used to prepare standard compounds and dispense medication according to established trade practices mixed and dispensed routine prescriptions; and/or I have followed formulary lists; and/or I am familiar with affects of drugs on the formulary list. I have checked all extemporaneous preparations by pharmacists; and/or I have edited, when necessary, physician orders for parenteral products; and/or I have ensured national contract compliance in accordance with the Prime Vendor (PPV) program, VA contracts, FSS, GSA, and mandatory contracts; and/or I have operated autonomously in the purchasing of drugs and supplies. I have developed special formulas, extemporaneous compounding, and special preparations; and/or I have served as authoritative consultant and advisor on known potential affects of new and/or investigational drugs; and/or I have provided expert information in side-affects of any prescription or non-prescription medication; and/or I have formulated approved pharmacy medication list. None of the above. 9 Chief Pharmacist must have knowledge of the procedures, duties and responsibilities involved in managing a full service pharmacy program in an outpatient clinic setting. Regular recurring tasks require a knowledge of a wide variety of pharmaceuticals, and understanding the role the pharmacy plays in the overall health care program. Tasks require knowledge of proper record‑keeping maintaining adequate inventories, estimating budget requirements and maintaining security of controlled pharmaceutical items. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed day to day pharmacy operations of the medication delivery system; and/or I have managed Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee; and/or I have coordinated pharmacy inpatient, outpatient, parenteral pharmacy programs with all other departments; and/or I have integrated pharmacy services with the overall Improving Organizational Performance (IOP) of the overall Health Services program; and/or I have provided logistical solutions to pharmacy services for satellite facilities, detention centers, camps, WitSec units, administrative detention and disciplinary segregation; and/or I have served as gatekeeper of the Agency National Formulary to include involvement in local non formulary request process; and/or I have ensured all medications were properly packaged and labeled; and/or I have ensured profile existed for all medication orders and assured there were no contraindications; and/or I have worked as a pharmacist in charge or pharmacy director in a hospital pharmacy. I have worked as staff pharmacist in charge to assist others; and/or I have worked as a team member in a large professional pharmacy environment; and/or I have worked as pharmacist in a pharmacy store franchise, independently owned pharmacy, or hospital pharmacy. I have estimated and submitted budgets; and/or I have been responsible for ordering, storing and dispensing medications; and/or I have served in an advisory capacity on matters related to pharmacy operations; and/or I have maintained strict daily inventory of all controlled substances; and/or I have performed quarterly narcotic audits; and/or I have maintained strict compliance with the American Correctional Association (ACA) and other accrediting agencies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).