Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 [30209] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 {72362} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience utilizing computer-based software programs, such as windows, word processing, spreadsheet, database, email, project management, etc.? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [71839] Select the statement that best describes your experience in working with a human resources office to track and report on staffing plans, and other human resource issues. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with a human resources office on staffing and other human resources issues. I meet with a human resources office periodically to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. I meet with a human resources office on a regularly scheduled basis to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. None of the above. 4 [1668] Select the statement that best describes your experience assisting others with office automation (OA) software (such as Microsoft Office, electronic procurement system, electronic travel system, etc.). Answer to this question is required I have assisted others in determining the best OA software for projects and with other basic OA issues (such as opening, saving, formatting, etc.) but usually ask others for help with different capabilities and technical questions. I have served as a point of contact for an office (officially or unofficially) on effective and efficient use of OA software. I have taught others to use the software's capabilities and resolve basic OA issues that they may have. I have served as a point of contact for an office (officially or unofficially) on effective and efficient use of OA software. I have taught others to use the software's capabilities and resolve basic OA issues that they may have. I keep up-to-date with new capabilities and systems in order to pass the knowledge along to others. I have little to no experience assisting others with office automation software. 5 [56571] Select the software application(s) that you are proficient in accomplishing routine analyses, reports, and queries. (Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the software's functionalities/capabilities). Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Access Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Excel TMS or Automated Training System Automated correspondence tracking system E2 or Automated Travel System Case Management Tracking System (CMTS) Castle or Automated Timekeeping System None of the above. 6 [14618] Select the statement that best describes your experience in following guidelines, procedures and/or directives in providing administrative support to an office. Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience providing administrative support to an office. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. I typically provide support to specialists on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, answering requests, and prepares reports. I typically provide support to senior leadership and specialists, as well as my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phones, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate offices or persons for assistance, maintaining databases, correcting correspondence, and preparing reports. I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; complete reports for delinquent correspondence, prepare status reminders, and insure for proper approvals/signatures; follow-up on pending or required correspondence actions. 7 [8772] Select the statement that best describes your experience coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions. Answer to this question is required I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; complete reports for delinquent correspondence, prepares status reminders, and insure for proper approvals/signatures; follow-up on pending or required correspondence actions. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone calls and referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, maintaining databases, correcting correspondence, and preparing reports. I typically provide support to specialists on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, answering requests, and prepares reports. None of the above. 8 [54963] Select the response which best describes your experience writing reports. Answer to this question is required I prepare routine inspection and test reports, as well as written reports with corrective action. I have assisted in the preparation of routine inspection and test reports, as well as assisted in the writing of reports with corrective action. I have written reports and recommendations detailing operating functions. I have assisted in the writing of reports and recommendations detailing operating functions. I have prepared administrative reports and correspondences. None of the above. 9 [58516] Select the statement that best describes your use of PRISM Web (Contract Writing System) or other equivalent contracting writing system. Answer to this question is required I use PRISM Web or other contracting writing system on a daily basis to complete my work assignments. I have generated solicitations and contracts in PRISM Web or other contracting writing system. I have never used PRISM Web or other contracting writing system. 10 [72004] Select the statement that best describes your experience supporting or assisting with spending plans, budget formulation sheets, or assisting with routing of procurements.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training supporting or assisting with spending plans, budget formulation sheets, or assisting with the routing of procurements. I have completed formal education or training supporting or assisting with spending plans, budget formulation sheets, or assisting with the routing or procurements but have not yet performed this task on a job. I have experience with supporting or assisting with spending plans, budget formulation sheets, or assisting with the routing of procurements under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I have experience supporting or assisting with spending plans, budget formulation sheets, or assisting with the routing of procurements. I have experience supporting or assisting with spending plans, budget formulation sheets, or assisting with the routing or procurements and have consulted others in these tasks. 11 [2894] Select the response that best describes your experience analyzing problems and developing solutions with minimal supervision or guidance. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in analyzing problems and developing solutions. I have had education or training in analyzing problems and developing solutions, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have experience analyzing problems and developing solutions on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have experience analyzing problems and developing solutions as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience analyzing problems and developing solutions as a regular part of a job and even in unique or unusual situations I did not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I am considered an expert in analyzing problems and developing solutions. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in performing this task. 12 [844] Please select the administrative process improvement task(s) you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have designed new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with existing laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with new laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have planned work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have coordinated work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have established work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have analyzed proposed processes to identify issues. I have analyzed existing processes to identify issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. None of the above Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 {72363} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience utilizing computer software for program-monitoring functions in procurement systems, vessel maintenance systems, to produce management and contractual documents and reports? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 {72364} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience extracting information from vessel maintenance systems and preparing contractual documents in a procurement system for task orders, performance reports, and financial work order close outs? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [71839] Select the statement that best describes your experience in working with a human resources office to track and report on staffing plans, and other human resource issues. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with a human resources office on staffing and other human resources issues. I meet with a human resources office periodically to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. I meet with a human resources office on a regularly scheduled basis to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. None of the above. 5 [8772] Select the statement that best describes your experience coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions. Answer to this question is required I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; complete reports for delinquent correspondence, prepares status reminders, and insure for proper approvals/signatures; follow-up on pending or required correspondence actions. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone calls and referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, maintaining databases, correcting correspondence, and preparing reports. I typically provide support to specialists on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, answering requests, and prepares reports. None of the above. 6 [64705] Select the response that best describes your experience advising&nbsp;management on the use of automation systems and programs, pertinent to human resources software applications. Answer to this question is required I have experience advising management on the use of automation systems and programs, pertinent to human resources software applications. I have experience advising management on the use of automation systems and programs, pertinent to human resources software applications to ensure compliance with federal regulations and policies. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 7 [72306] Select the statement that best describes your experience providing technical and consultative services in program or administrative areas such as training, performance management, data systems, policy implementation, or resource management. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job. I have experience performing this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience performing this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have experience where others normally consult me for my expertise and assistance in performing this task/competency. I have experience leading and/or supervising the performance of this task/competency. 8 [54661] Select the statement that best describes your experience in working with the Office of Human Resources to track and report on staffing plans, and other human resource issues. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with the office of human resources on staffing and other human resources issues. I meet with the office of human resources periodically to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. I meet with the office of human resource on a regularly scheduled basis to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. None of the above. 9 [31168] Select the statement that describes your knowledge of standardized purchasing regulations, policies and procedures either in commercial or government organizations. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in performance of this task. 10 [54963] Select the response which best describes your experience writing reports. Answer to this question is required I prepare routine inspection and test reports, as well as written reports with corrective action. I have assisted in the preparation of routine inspection and test reports, as well as assisted in the writing of reports with corrective action. I have written reports and recommendations detailing operating functions. I have assisted in the writing of reports and recommendations detailing operating functions. I have prepared administrative reports and correspondences. None of the above. 11 [58516] Select the statement that best describes your use of PRISM Web (Contract Writing System) or other equivalent contracting writing system. Answer to this question is required I use PRISM Web or other contracting writing system on a daily basis to complete my work assignments. I have generated solicitations and contracts in PRISM Web or other contracting writing system. I have never used PRISM Web or other contracting writing system. 12 [7415] Choose the statement that best reflects your experience in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review). Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review). I have completed formal education or training in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review), but have not yet performed this task on a job. I have performed budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review) on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I have performed budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review) as a regular and recurring part of a job independently with minimal review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. In addition to number 4, budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review) been a major part of my job and I have trained others in the performance of this task OR others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 [55863] Select the clerical and administrative tasks that you have performed on a regular, recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Receive telephone inquiries. Review incoming documents/mail and route and/or sort based on priorities set by a supervisor. Coordinate/make travel arrangements for office personnel. Order office supplies as needed. Organize and maintain office files and records. Type office correspondence, reports and/or other related data. Operate office equipment, such as a computer, printer, photocopy machine, fax machine, and scanner. None of the above. 14 [844] Please select the administrative process improvement task(s) you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have designed new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with existing laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with new laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have planned work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have coordinated work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have established work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have analyzed proposed processes to identify issues. I have analyzed existing processes to identify issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. None of the above Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [62365] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience planning, communicating and conducting research to develop technologies, processes, and techniques for improving the performance of materials used in highways? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 {72364} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience extracting information from vessel maintenance systems and preparing contractual documents in a procurement system for task orders, performance reports, and financial work order close outs? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 {72366} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience in process improvement to ensure consistency and standardization on all processes? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [72012] What level of experience do you have with automated Human Resources (HR) systems in utilizing their functionality to process HR actions, prepare reports, and perform queries? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in performance of this task. 6 [72013] What level of experience do you have in adapting to programming changes and updates to facilitate the formulation, execution, and tracking of business plans? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in performance of this task. 7 [54148] Select the types of office automation tools/systems you have used on a regular basis to maintain the efficiency of the office's operations. Answer to this question is required Electronic Calendar (e.g., Microsoft Outlook or equivalent) Tracking logs (e.g., Word, Excel or equivalent) Word processing (e.g., Microsoft Word or equivalent) Human Resources Information System (e.g., PeopleSoft, Oracle, Federal Personnel and Payroll System) Automated travel manager system (e.g., GovTrip or equivalent) Automated procurement system (e.g., PRISM or equivalent) Automated Time and Attendance system Shared electronic folders Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint or equivalent) SharePoint None of the above 8 [54661] Select the statement that best describes your experience in working with the Office of Human Resources to track and report on staffing plans, and other human resource issues. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with the office of human resources on staffing and other human resources issues. I meet with the office of human resources periodically to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. I meet with the office of human resource on a regularly scheduled basis to discuss, review, and update staffing plans, and other human resource issues. None of the above. 9 [52418] Select which type(s) of procurement activities you have performed in the past. Your corresponding experience must be substantiated in your resume. Answer to this question is required Served as a purchasing agent Served as a lead purchasing agent Utilized automated procurement systems Processed procurement documents Provided purchasing/procurement instructions/guidance to office staff Served as an authority on procurement rules and regulations Trained other purchasing agents on procurement processes Trained other purchasing agents on automated procurement systems Assigned procurement-related tasks to other purchasing agents None of the above 10 [31168] Select the statement that describes your knowledge of standardized purchasing regulations, policies and procedures either in commercial or government organizations. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others in performance of this task. 11 [54963] Select the response which best describes your experience writing reports. Answer to this question is required I prepare routine inspection and test reports, as well as written reports with corrective action. I have assisted in the preparation of routine inspection and test reports, as well as assisted in the writing of reports with corrective action. I have written reports and recommendations detailing operating functions. I have assisted in the writing of reports and recommendations detailing operating functions. I have prepared administrative reports and correspondences. None of the above. 12 [58516] Select the statement that best describes your use of PRISM Web (Contract Writing System) or other equivalent contracting writing system. Answer to this question is required I use PRISM Web or other contracting writing system on a daily basis to complete my work assignments. I have generated solicitations and contracts in PRISM Web or other contracting writing system. I have never used PRISM Web or other contracting writing system. 13 [58092] Select the response that best describes your experience tracking spending plans, creating budget formulation sheets, and assisting with the routing of procurements. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training tracking spending plans, creating budget formulation sheets and assisting with routing of procurements. I have completed formal education or training tracking spending plans, creating budget formulation sheets and assisting with routing of procurements but have not yet performed this task on a job. I have experience with tracking spending plans, creating budget formulation sheets and assisting with routing of procurements under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I have experience tracking spending plans, creating budget formulation sheets and assisting with routing of procurement requests. I have experience tracking spending plans, creating budget formulation sheets and assisting with routing of procurement for three or more distinct appropriations for a Cabinet Level office of the Secretary organization in a single fiscal year. 14 [8366] Select the statement(s) that describe your demonstrated work experience evaluating and analyzing data. Answer to this question is required I establish guidelines for the data collection process. I make decisions based on data analysis provided to me. I routinely analyze data to establish policy and program goals. I utilize data analysis to identify problems and recommend solutions. I make recommendations affecting program policy based on data analysis. I have participated in working groups that have utilized data analysis. None of the above 15 [7415] Choose the statement that best reflects your experience in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review). Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review). I have completed formal education or training in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review), but have not yet performed this task on a job. I have performed budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review) on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I have performed budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review) as a regular and recurring part of a job independently with minimal review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. In addition to number 4, budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests, including analysis and review) been a major part of my job and I have trained others in the performance of this task OR others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 1 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 2 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. Answer to this question is required I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 3 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 6 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Answer to this question is required Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 7 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 9.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 9.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 9.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 10 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).