Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 [343] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-14 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [70932] Do you currently have, or are able to obtain and maintain, a Top Secret security clearance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [70935] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience coordinating ship activations, ship reporting, and scheduling? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [70936] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience preparing written material for internal and external use, preparing and presenting briefs, and recommending courses of action for agency decision making? &nbsp;This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [70937] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience managing, leading, directing a staff and implementing performance plans? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [70931] Select the statement that best describes the highest USCG Merchant Mariner Credential you possess. Answer to this question is required Third Mate of self-propelled vessels of unlimited tonnage. Second Mate of self-propelled vessels of unlimited tonnage. Chief Mate of self-propelled vessels of unlimited tonnage. Master of self-propelled vessels of unlimited tonnage upon oceans. None of the above. 7 [29431] Select the statement that best describes your level of knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs, including the applicable laws and regulations, policies, operation and/or technical demands, program interrelationships, program precedents, and customer needs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have some general knowledge of maritime industry policies and programs. I have had education or training related to maritime industry policies and programs. I have had direct experience working with maritime industry policies and programs. I work with maritime industry policies and programs as a routine part of my job. 8 [6920] Do you have experience related to management and operation of commercial, ABS classed, USCG certified, ocean going vessels or maintenance and repair of marine propulsion systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [8981] Select the statement that best describes your level of knowledge of the Maritime Administration National defense Reserve Fleet and Reduced Operating Status Vessels Operations and the interrelationship between those operations and Federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in this area. I have completed formal education or training in this area, but have not yet applied that education or training on the job. I have applied my knowledge, education and training on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied my knowledge, education and training as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Application of this knowledge, education, or training has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in this area and/or others have consulted me as an expert in this area. 10 [72277] Have you actively sailed on your USCG Merchant Mariner Credential? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 [7439] Select the response(s) that describes the work you have done for or with the Department of Defense (DoD) components involving ocean transportation. Answer to this question is required I have not worked with any of the Department of Defense (DoD) components involving ocean transportation. I have worked for or with the Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (SDDC)/Military Transportation Management Command (MTMC). I have worked for or with the Military Sealift Command (MSC). I have worked for or with the US Transportation Command (USTC). Other. 12 [20572] Select the statement that best describes your experience standing emergency duty/watch? Answer to this question is required I supervised or managed a 24 X 7 X 365 watch operation (Military or civilian). I was a fulltime watchstander in a 24 X 7 X 365 watch operation (Military or Civilian). I have participated as an adjunct/augmentee in a 24 X 7 watch operation during special events. I have no watchstanding experience. 13 [56474] Choose the statement that best describes your experience independently planning, designing, and carrying out work assignments. Answer to this question is required I have worked independently on routine assignments, but sought guidance or clarification of instructions from my supervisor or other staff on how to carry out more complex assignments or assignments for which there was no precedent. My work was reviewed by my supervisor for accuracy, completeness, and adherence to instructions or agency/organizational policy. My work frequently required revisions. I have worked independently on assignments, but consulted with my supervisor or other senior staff on possible approaches to controversial or unprecedented situations. My work was reviewed for soundness of approach, feasibility of recommendations, and adherence to agency or organizational policy. My supervisor normally accepted my completed work and recommendations with some changes. I routinely exercised independent judgment in the analysis and resolution of complex issues. My supervisor normally accepted my completed work with only minor changes. The recommendations and decisions that I made were accepted as technically sound. 14 [2604] Select the response(s) that describe your experience communicating information to senior management officials. Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external customers on a daily basis. I have experience in describing rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have successfully negotiated with customers, contractors and vendors to resolve problems. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have acted as a meeting organizer and facilitator. I have successfully built consensus among individuals with disparate views and often in the face of high-level controversy, disagreement, and conflicting interest. I have successfully briefed Cabinet level executives and other high-ranking corporate officials inside and outside of my organization. None of the above 15 [59410] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing written materials on economic issues such as correspondence, reports, briefing papers, and/or other materials to various individuals and audiences. Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing written documents such as transmittal memos and e-mail, which cover routine issues, and recipients are usually within my immediate organization. I have experience preparing written documents such as reports and briefing papers, which cover routine issues with some complex elements, and recipients are usually within my organization. I have experience preparing written documents, such as reports, briefing papers, and correspondence to individuals and organizations outside my own organization, which cover complex issues and require sensitivity to the views of my audience. I have experience preparing a wide variety of written documents such as complex studies, policy guidance, legislative correspondence, speeches and testimony, which involve issues or programs of a controversial nature, and recipients are a wide range of individuals both within and outside of the organization. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 16 [63147] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience with developing manuals, guidance documents, standard operation procedures (SOPs). Answer to this question is required I do not have experience developing manuals, guidance documents, standard operation procedures (SOPs). I have received education or training in this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have developed manuals, guidance documents, standard operation procedures (SOPs) under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I am skilled at developing manuals, guidance documents, standard operation procedures (SOPs). I have developed manuals, guidance documents, standard operation procedures (SOPs) independently and routinely as a regular part of jobs that I have held. I have performed similar or directly related tasks, and my experience and training have prepared me to perform this task successfully. 17 [2882] Select the function(s) that you have performed in supervising or managing a project, organization, team, working group, or contractor staff. Answer to this question is required Set team goals, made work assignments, and reviewed technical quality of deliverables. Set and adjusted short-term priorities as needed. Set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. Developed performance measures. Evaluated and recommended or assigned performance ratings. Planned, assigned, reviewed, and accepted, amended, or rejected work done by others. Coached or mentored individuals about their work performance. Took administrative or other action to correct poor performance of an employee or contractor. Maintained adherence to program policies and applicable laws and regulations. I have not performed any of the functions described above. 18 [3339] Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience as a change manager. Answer to this question is required Developed strategic goals for change. Led change initiatives and acted as a change agent. Assessed the readiness for change and identified appropriate change strategies. Communicated change goals and strategies to appropriate parties. None of the above. 19 [2408] Choose the statement that best describes the working environment in which you feel most comfortable and perform at your best. Answer to this question is required I have worked in large, complex groups where my facilitation skills contributed directly to successful completion of assigned tasks. I have worked in small, close-knit groups that had common interests and goals and contributed to the accomplishments of assigned tasks. I have worked alone and believe my ability to maintain a clear focus on the work at hand permitted me to achieve consistently excellent results. I have led large, complex groups where my management skills ensured that the work was coordinated sufficiently to ensure successful completion of assigned tasks. I have led small, close-knit groups where I ensured that everyone in the group was doing his or her fair share of the work, thereby contributing to successful completion of assigned tasks. None of the above. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 14 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 14.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 14.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 14.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).