Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Financial Specialists must respond to inquiries, provide interpretations, and present financial reports in a clear, concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised memorandums and charts for internal use; and/or I have responded to email request for pay arrangements instructed by the supervisor; and/or I have updated the calendar to include scheduled meetings, and due dates for financial projects and reports; and/or I have prepared a weekly status report for internal use. I have completed standard cost forms and schedules; and/or I have summarized information and quantitative data for use within the office; and/or I have completed work orders; and/or I have prepared a response to an audit report for supervisor review. I have responded to general e-mail inquiries; and/or I have completed supply technician forms; and/or I have prepared inter-office memoranda. None of the above. 3 Financial Specialists must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts to maintain day to day operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to routine telephone or inmate inquires; and/or I have verified the status of accounts with vendors; and/or I have verified consolidated submissions or basic financial information with supervisor. I have provided resolutions to routine inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have discussed issues with staff to complete routine assignments; and/or I have provided basic travel processing training to administrative support staff. I have responded to inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have contacted staff concerning travel or salary advances; and/or I have led a discussion in a department/staff meeting; and/or I have discussed meeting agendas; and/or I have consolidated submissions or information at a briefing. None of the above. 4 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of financial principles to determine the accuracy of financial information submitted by subordinates and cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed vendor payment for accuracy; and/or I have prepared travel settlement vouchers; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have reviewed obligations for accuracy. I have assisted with reconciling a subsidiary account to general ledger account; and/or I have developed a spreadsheet to function in support of a journal entry/general ledger account; and/or I have performed a cash reconciliation. I have checked daily accounting reports to ensure transactions were processed; and/or I have researched applicable policies or guidelines when faced with questionable accounting issues; and/or I have gathered data for team leader/supervisor. None of the above. 5 Financial Specialists must analyze, draw conclusions, and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared responses to audit findings; and/or I have classified financial transactions according to the appropriate general ledger account; and/or I have assisted with submitting prior period adjustments to management (i.e., accounting entries that were identified in the current fiscal year that should have been reflected in a prior fiscal year). I have prepared travel and taxi reimbursements; and/or I have assisted in preparing population reports; and/or I have assisted in the analysis of inmate account entries. I have reviewed general ledger accounts for proper balances; and/or I have prepared monthly proof checks; and/or I have submitted reclassification of the Governmental Wide Accounting (GWA) account statement. None of the above. 6 Financial Specialists must apply a variety of accounting and budget policies, procedures, and other guidelines in maintaining operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used accounting manual to determine what items were needed to pay a bill; and/or I have reviewed simple travel vouchers for accuracy according to travel regulations; and/or I have prepared asset reconciliation entries in accordance with regulations. I have reconciled and resolved general/subsidiary ledger discrepancies; and/or I have reconciled Treasury reports to ensure cash accounts were accurate; and/or I have assisted with or conducted the Fund Control reconciliation to ensure the budget was within appropriate threshold amounts; and/or I have participated as an audit team member for a program review. I have ensured annual external year-end reports were completed by established scheduled dates; and/or I have maintained accurate open accounts payable balances; and/or I have assisted with archiving reports as required by office protocols. None of the above. 7 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have generated a general ledger to balance property and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated monthly ending reports to prepare the monthly proof checks; and/or I have generated cost reports to balance work-in-progress accounts; and/or I have generated outstanding travel advance and account receivable reports. I have submitted information using spreadsheets or tables with automated formulas; and/or I have proofed reports for typos or miscalculations; and/or I have combined information from various reports to summarize findings. I have reviewed obligation reports to assist with Fund Control or ensure cost centers are not over obligated; and/or I have reviewed personal or real property reports for accuracy; and/or I have researched how source documents for entries are recorded into the automated accounting system. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Financial Specialists must respond to inquiries, provide interpretations, and present financial reports in a clear, concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a newsletter article about financial management; and/or I have prepared minutes of budget meetings; and/or I have written letters to vendors concerning past due debts to the government; and/or I have investigated and prepared correspondence on Congressionals and other inquiries assigned to Financial Management. I have revised memorandums and charts for internal use; and/or I have responded to email request for pay arrangements instructed by the supervisor; and/or I have updated the calendar to include scheduled meetings, and due dates for financial projects and reports; and/or I have prepared a weekly status report for internal use. I have completed standard cost forms and schedules; and/or I have summarized information and quantitative data for use within the office; and/or I have completed work orders; and/or I have prepared a response to an audit report for supervisor review. None of the above. 3 Financial Specialists must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts to maintain day-to-day operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted regulations and provided technical advice to staff and members of the community; and/or I have answered complex questions relating to Financial Management; and/or I have briefed supervisor on status of workload; and/or I have provided training and technical financial assistance to staff through communication using training sessions and one-on-one sessions; and/or I have served on various committees and task forces, which involved major programs and projects within Financial Management. I have responded to inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have contacted staff concerning travel or salary advances; and/or I have led a discussion in a department/staff meeting; and/or I have discussed meeting agendas; and/or I have consolidated submissions or information at a briefing. I have provided resolutions to routine inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have discussed issues with staff to complete routine assignments; and/or I have provided basic travel processing training to administrative support staff. None of the above. 4 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of financial principles in order to determine the accuracy of financial information submitted by subordinates and cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with reconciling a subsidiary account to general ledger account; and/or I have developed a spreadsheet to function in support of a journal entry/general ledger account; and/or I have performed a cash reconciliation. I have reviewed financial reports to determine if they were balanced; and/or I have resolved various issues pertaining to financial management with assistance from the supervisor; and/or I have assisted in compiling the Budget Requirements Report; and/or I have received incoming negotiable instruments and prepared them for deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank, then entered the appropriate accounting entries in the Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) or equivalent system to account for incoming funds. I have reviewed vendor payment for accuracy; and/or I have prepared travel settlement vouchers; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have reviewed obligations for accuracy. None of the above. 5 Financial Specialists must analyze, draw conclusions, and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed general ledger accounts for proper balances; and/or I have prepared monthly proof checks; and/or I have submitted reclassification of the Governmental Wide Accounting (GWA) account statement. I have determined that the general ledger accounts were balanced; and/or I have determined from reports the obligations for each cost center; and/or I have analyzed various financial reports with assistance from the supervisor; and/or I have analyzed obligation documents to determine validity of payment vouchers and proper classification of the obligations. I have prepared responses to audit findings; and/or I have classified financial transactions according to the appropriate general ledger account; and/or I have assisted with submitting prior period adjustments to management (i.e., accounting entries that were identified in the current fiscal year that should have been reflected in a prior fiscal year). None of the above. 6 Financial Specialists must apply a variety of accounting and budget policies, procedures, and other guidelines in maintaining operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured annual external year-end reports were completed by established scheduled dates; and/or I have maintained accurate open accounts payable balances; and/or I have assisted with archiving reports as required by office protocols. I have reviewed non-routine travel vouchers for accuracy according to travel regulations; and/or I have assured timely processing of settlements to achieve timely and accurate financial statements; and/or I have monitored or reviewed the recording of new obligations to ensure proper classification of obligations; and/or I have monitored open obligations to ensure the validity of obligations and conducted appropriate follow up. I have reconciled and resolved general/subsidiary ledger discrepancies; and/or I have reconciled Treasury reports to ensure cash accounts were accurate; and/or I have assisted with or conducted the Fund Control reconciliation to ensure the budget was within appropriate threshold amounts; and/or I have participated as an audit team member for a program review. None of the above. 7 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems in order to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed obligation reports to assist with Fund Control or ensure cost centers are not over obligated; and/or I have reviewed personal or real property reports for accuracy; and/or I have researched how source documents for entries are recorded into the automated accounting system. I have generated a general ledger to balance property and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated monthly ending reports to prepare the monthly proof checks; and/or I have generated cost reports to balance work-in-progress accounts; and/or I have generated outstanding travel advance and account receivable reports. I have operated Fund Control programs; and/or I have conducted research using an automated accounting system; and/or I have processed payments in an automated accounting system; and/or I have provided an explanation of variance using automated accounting; and/or I have entered obligation changes to cost centers, to ensure the appropriate documentation exists for all entries. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).