Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Staffing Specialist typically deal with institutional, Central Office, and regional staff.&nbsp; He/she must demonstrate effective oral communication skills by expressing technical information clearly and concisely.&nbsp; Contacts, both in person and over the phone, require the ability to meet and deal in an impartial manner.&nbsp; He/she must be skilled in interpersonal communication to conduct training classes, orientations, and seminars.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised hiring officials/Chief Executive Officers (CEO’s)/department head/managers on the basic personnel or training policy requirements; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance or training opportunities; and/or I have mediated between management and union on labor issues; and/or I have provided guidance related to the processing of age waivers, hiring incentives/special hiring authorities. I have provided current employees information about potential career paths available from entry level jobs occupied; and/or I have participated in recruitment activities; and/or I have provided general staff training on basic human resource programs such as benefits and hiring; and/or I have advised management in human resource areas such as leave, staffing/application procedures; and/or I have consulted with Security and Background Investigation Section (SBIS) staff regarding suitability issues. I have conducted applicant pre employment interviews; and/or I have provided guidance to management on position classification issues, labor management relations, or leave policies; and/or I have responded to basic employment questions at a job fair; and/or I have conducted a small group facility tour; and/or I have participated in orientation for volunteer/contract staff; and/or I have given an oral presentation to management on the results of a survey. None of the above. 5 The Staffing Specialist must communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, often without the benefit of established rules and guidelines. &nbsp;He/she must write a variety of correspondence and human resource documents.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared correspondence to supervisors outlining performance appraisal requirements; and/or I have assisted Subject Matter Experts (SME’s) in preparing job specific questions for a variety of occupations; and/or I have assisted supervisors in writing position descriptions. I have prepared letters addressing a variety of employment issues; and/or I have conveyed basic training/personnel requirements in the agency newsletter, e-mail, or staff memorandum; and/or I have prepared an objection/pass over request justification regarding an applicant’s suitability for employment. I have drafted a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to resolve a Labor Management Relations (LMR) issue; and/or I have written performance evaluations; and/or I have written lesson plans for a training class; and/or I have written position evaluation statements; and/or I have written justifications for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above the minimum rate request, or age waiver. None of the above. 6 The Staffing Specialist must be able to interpret and apply a wide variety of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and agency regulations, as well as other instructional/regulatory materials.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined applicants qualifications for detail-for-training vacancy announcements; and/or I have developed a procedural manual for new human resource staff; and/or I have responded to general inquiries on the application process; and/or I have determined proper pay setting for promotion or change to lower grade actions; and/or I have provided training as an instructor on a staffing related topic in a structured classroom setting; and/or I have advised management on position reorganization strategies. I have advised management on new government-wide human resource initiatives such as human capital management; and/or I have provided responses to grievances or unfair labor practice charges after researching human resource policy; and/or I have provided comments and recommendations to draft regulations and policy issuances. I have processed grievances, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) complaints, or Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) appeals; and/or I have determined applicant eligibility for competitive or excepted appointments; and/or I have identified policy violations and discrepancies as a member of a program review team by comparing human resource policy and regulations to the current practice; and/or I have ensured compliance with the performance appraisal system; and/or I have developed recruitment sources and methods. None of the above. 7 The Staffing Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of human resource policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as human resource trends, research, and literature.&nbsp; This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations in such areas as position classification, staffing, affirmative employment/Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), and labor management relations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed human resource related topics at local annual training; and/or I have advised management on potential corrective actions that address staff performance and attendance issues; and/or I have consulted by management on position reorganization strategies. I have participated in Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) committee meetings and activities as a human resource personnel or program manager; and/or I have prepared disciplinary action cases; and/or I have provided technical advice and procedural information to management/staff; and/or I have applied competitive and excepted procedures for hiring applicants. I have requested and processed certificate of eligible candidates; and/or I have prepared and processed merit promotion certificates; and/or I have determined applicant qualifications for position; and/or I have responded to basic questions on benefits; and/or I have determined proper pay setting for promotion or change to lower grade actions. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Staffing Specialist typically deal with institutional, Central Office, and regional staff.&nbsp; He/she must demonstrate effective oral communication skills by expressing technical information clearly and concisely.&nbsp; Contacts, both in person and over the phone, require the ability to meet and deal in an impartial manner.&nbsp; He/she must be skilled in interpersonal communication to conduct training classes, orientations, and seminars.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised hiring officials/Chief Executive Officers (CEO’s)/department head/managers on the basic personnel or training policy requirements; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance or training opportunities; and/or I have mediated between management and union on labor issues; and/or I have provided guidance related to the processing of age waivers, hiring incentives/special hiring authorities. I have provided current employees information about potential career paths available from entry level jobs occupied; and/or I have participated in recruitment activities; and/or I have provided general staff training on basic human resource programs such as benefits and hiring; and/or I have advised management in human resource areas such as leave, staffing/application procedures; and/or I have consulted with Security and Background Investigation Section (SBIS) staff regarding suitability issues. I have taught training courses on staffing/hiring programs; and/or I have testified or provided a deposition at a Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB), Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), arbitration hearing concerning the internal/external staffing process; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures; and/or I have interviewed Subject Matter Experts (SME’s) to establish job selective/quality ranking factors. None of the above. 5 The Staffing Specialist must communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, often without the benefit of established rules and guidelines. &nbsp;He/she must write a variety of correspondence and human resource documents.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared correspondence to supervisors outlining performance appraisal requirements; and/or I have assisted Subject Matter Experts (SME’s) in preparing job specific questions for a variety of occupations; and/or I have assisted supervisors in writing position descriptions. I have prepared a program review/audit response to a finding; and/or I have revised institution supplements or local policy; and/or I have written congressional responses on local issues; and/or I have submitted nomination/justification for bureau-wide awards; and/or I have drafted proposal and decision letters for adverse or disciplinary actions; and/or I have authored a response to an Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) Acknowledgment Order. I have drafted a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to resolve a Labor Management Relations (LMR) issue; and/or I have written performance evaluations; and/or I have written lesson plans for a training class; and/or I have written position evaluation statements; and/or I have written justifications for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above the minimum rate request, or age waiver. None of the above. 6 The Staffing Specialist must be able to interpret and apply a wide variety of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and agency regulations, as well as other instructional/regulatory materials.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained complex staffing related policy/procedures to outside review bodies such as Office of Personnel Management (OPM), Department of Justice (DOJ), Fair Labor Relations Authority (FLRA), and Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB); and/or I have served as an auditor or technical resource staff for a staffing program; and/or I have experience in determining qualifications/eligibility for a variety of occupational series; and/or I have advised management on corrective actions regarding improper appointments or selections. I have advised management on new government-wide human resource initiatives such as human capital management; and/or I have provided responses to grievances or unfair labor practice charges after researching human resource policy; and/or I have provided comments and recommendations to draft regulations and policy issuances. I have processed grievances, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) complaints, or Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) appeals; and/or I have determined applicant eligibility for competitive or excepted appointments; and/or I have identified policy violations and discrepancies as a member of a program review team by comparing human resource policy and regulations to the current practice; and/or I have ensured compliance with the performance appraisal system; and/or I have developed recruitment sources and methods. None of the above. 7 The Staffing Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of human resource policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as human resource trends, research, and literature.&nbsp; This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations in such areas as position classification, staffing, affirmative employment/Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), and labor management relations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed human resource related topics at local annual training; and/or I have advised management on potential corrective actions that address staff performance and attendance issues; and/or I have consulted by management on position reorganization strategies. I have participated in Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) committee meetings and activities as a human resource personnel or program manager; and/or I have prepared disciplinary action cases; and/or I have provided technical advice and procedural information to management/staff; and/or I have applied competitive and excepted procedures for hiring applicants. I have explained complex agency procedures to outside review body such as Office of Personnel Management (OPM), Fair Labor Relations Authority (FLRA), and Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB); and/or I have read, interpreted, and explained citing from Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) law to managers/staff; and/or I have served as the human resource staff resource during a training/meeting; and/or I have developed a procedural training manual for new human resource staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).