Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: 1. Providing oversight of various programs and policies to effectively evaluate, develop and implement strategies to ensure efficient management of programs and operations. (ex: asset data related to a facility, system or systems) 2. Performing the full range of management functions including planning, directing, and evaluating program activities, developing goals, and making short- and long-range program plans. 3. Providing analytical skills in calculations, finance and administration required for an Enterprise Asset Management program. 4. Developing and applying program management principles and practices related to various programs and projects (asset inventory, design, maintenance, construction, repair, finance, etc.) Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: 1. Providing oversight of various programs and policies to effectively evaluate, develop and implement strategies to ensure efficient management of programs and operations. (ex: asset data related to a facility, system or systems) 2. Performing the full range of management functions including planning, directing, and evaluating program activities, developing goals, and making short- and long-range program plans. 3. Providing analytical skills in calculations, finance and administration required for an Enterprise Asset Management program. 4. Developing and applying program management principles and practices related to various programs and projects (asset inventory, design, maintenance, construction, repair, finance, etc.) Grade: All Grades 1 Select the budget planning activities you have performed. Answer to this question is required Forecasted costs Performed a cost-benefit analysis Developed short and long term goals Researched relevant trends and budget-impacting conditions Completed Budget Estimation Submission (BES) four year reports, or similar types of reports Evaluated programs to identify fiscal efficiencies None of the above 2 Do you have experience managing an Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) program in support of real property and/or facilities management activities? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which strategic planning functions have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Collaborate with stakeholders to establish strategic directions. Collaborate with stakeholders to develop strategy execution tools and long-range management plans for program implementation, evaluation, and administration. Facilitate program and project management discussions or workshops (scope, objective setting, risk identification, etc.) with teams or groups of individuals. Plan the implementation of new ideas, procedures, processes, methods, and/or approaches in the areas of short and long-range strategic planning, development, and deployment. Communicate strategic plans to ensure accountability of plans by stakeholders. Assess the impact of strategic plans from the view of major stakeholders in order to develop approaches, recommendations or programs to ensure achieving outcomes. Provide consultation and advice on developing strategic plans. None of the above 4 Please select the response that best describes your experience developing long-range plans to execute an organization&rsquo;s real property asset management programs and/or strategic initiatives. Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have assisted a senior level employees in the development of long range plans to execute an organizations real property asset management program. I have participated in working groups or as a member of a team responsible for the development of long-range plans to execute and organizations real property asset management program and/or strategic initiatives. I have independently developed long-range plans to execute an organization’s real property asset management program and/or strategic initiatives. I have provided expert advice and technical guidance to program managers performing this task and I have ensured organizational objectives were met. 5 Select the statements that best describe your experience bringing about strategic change to meet the goals of a unit (i.e., division, department, program, or organization). (No Choice Limit) Answer to this question is required Conducted a review of the unit's core mission and gathered information from relevant sources to support development of a strategic plan. Designed approaches and procedures to develop a strategic plan supporting key goals and objectives. Communicated strategic plan, goals, and objectives to key internal stakeholders. Motivated key internal stakeholders to take concrete steps to accomplish goals and objectives. Established performance measures of strategic change to allow the unit or organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. Monitored progress or results of a strategic initiative to take any further action necessary to meet goals and objectives. None of the above. 6 &nbsp; What types of analysis do you have experience conducting as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Analysis of process output data. Analysis of survey data. Analysis of management information and requirements. Analysis of administrative control systems, to prevent waste, loss, unauthorized use or misappropriation of assets. Performance Analysis. Research and analysis for business programs or operations. Preventive maintenance analysis. Corrective maintenance analysis. None of the above 7 Select the statements that describe how you attained your ability to design and implement new programs and processes. Answer to this question is required Devised new methods, procedures, and approaches that had agency-wide impact. Developed a new performance management system that aligned with the agency vision. Created new methods for planning, designing, and carrying out program objectives. Organized and lead cross-divisional work groups to develop creative solutions to address problems. Displayed creativity by deviating from traditional methods in developing new procedures. None of the Above 8 Which of the following business operations tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Assessed and improved program effectiveness using qualitative and quantitative methods. Interpreted and provided advice on policies, procedures, guidelines, and precedents. Developed new methods and techniques for forecasting long-range human capital needs. Analyzed and compared program content, cost-benefit, and viability of alternative budget and program actions. Interpreted and assessed the impact of new and revised regulations on the formulation and execution of budgets. None of the above. 9 In the space provided below, please explain in detail, your specialized knowledge and experience regarding key components of asset management. (minimum character count for each answer, 1000) &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - Facility Asset Inventory &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -Lifecycle Planning &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -Preventive/Predictive Maintenance &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -Data Management and Monitoring &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -Asset Risk Management Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Which of the following best describes your experience with planning, scheduling, and organizing work to meet customer needs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience planning, scheduling, or organizing work. I have participated as a team member to plan, schedule, and organize work. I have independently planned, scheduled, and organized work. I have led a team to plan, schedule, and organize work. 11 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational-wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Elected officials and their staff Executives, Division Directors, Corporate Officers, or Senior Managers External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.