Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under the special hiring authority for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of this announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Executive Assistant, Director&rsquo;s Office must possess the ability to effectively communicate with a variety of individuals internal and external to the agency.&nbsp; Internally, he/she communicates with Executive Staff, Union officials, senior managers and line staff throughout the agency.&nbsp; External communications include members of Congress and their staff, high-level Department of Justice staff, high-level staff from other agencies, local, state, and international officials both internal and external to corrections to include contacts with various community leaders, citizens, and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have provided suggestions while working on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to co-workers and peers. I have coordinated a work group which included members of the senior management/executive staff in other agencies; and/or I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have conducted interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given formal presentations to the Executive Staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have conducted formal presentations at job fairs, community events, vendor fairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendors; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have communicated information pertaining to complex policy and regulations in a clear, concise manner to senior management staff; and/or I have given briefings to senior management; and/or I have guided workgroups in addressing or resolving a complex topic or issue; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for media platforms; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area. None of the above. 5 The Executive Assistant is responsible for the quality control of all materials routed for the Director&rsquo;s signature, including letters and other correspondence, agency policy, responses to audits, and other sensitive and confidential documents.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for reviewing, editing and correcting all correspondence prepared by others prior to releasing for final signature/approval by the Director. &nbsp;He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax and format in order to effectively prepare/edit letters, papers, etc., for high level use. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have edited an internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal agency/organization requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws, regulations, etc., in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level federal, state, local or international external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures, etc.; and/or I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (i.e., technical journal, magazine, etc.); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by an agency. I have prepared draft articles or other publications; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. None of the above. 6 The Executive Assistant meets and deals with individuals of differing backgrounds and will need to provide guidance and direction to various individuals.&nbsp; He/she must possess skills necessary to relay technical and non-technical information to others in a manner which is understood by targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have negotiated a major policy change with the Union; and/or I have made a presentation in front of a “hostile audience” and changed their opinion; and/or I have coordinated or served as team leader for a major project whereby fellow team members required much motivation to get the job completed in a timely manner; and/or I have regularly counseled and structured developmental activities for large groups of employees with performance deficiencies. I have led community-based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have resolved internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officer (CEO)’s, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have provided suggestions during an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. I have facilitated and coordinated training for a variety of participants (management level/line staff, etc.); and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations. None of the above. 7 The Executive Assistant is involved in gathering and evaluating information on topics and issues having direct impact on agency operations.&nbsp; He/she will gather information, analyze and prepare for usage for a variety of purposes, such as keeping management abreast of issues, preparing to address audiences, and identifying other related issues that impact agency operations. Recommendations made by the Executive Assistant are heavily relied upon by the Director in making executive level decisions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have handled/dealt with management problems as a troubleshooter/liaison; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have used SENTRY or other available automated system to pull statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy, recommending changes or updates as necessary. I have collected information and made recommendations to increase security at an institution or contract facility; and/or I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating agency practices that impacted specific programs; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended appropriate disciplinary procedures; and/or I have developed national strategic plans, developed national policy, served as troubleshooter in dealing with correctional administrative issues. None of the above. 8 The Executive Assistant is responsible for the coordination of a variety of projects/assignments which directly enhance the mission of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; He/she must possess the ability to gather, request, coordinate, and monitor the flow of information required to effectively accomplish the requests of the Director. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated, monitored, tracked and summarized supervisor’s incoming correspondence and provided recommendations for required actions; and/or I have maintained and/or revised an established system which ensured office/division/department projects are met; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have resolved employee complaints and grievances; and/or I have recommended selections, promotions, awards, etc. I have led a team in the completion of multiple, simultaneous projects for mid/senior level executives and ensured completion within established deadline; and/or I have developed a system which ensured office/division/department projects are met, including the coordination of input/information required from other departments; and/or I have maintained appointment scheduling for senior level managers, and provided regular, pro-active briefings on issues involved in upcoming Executive Staff meetings; and/or I have coordinated, monitored, tracked and summarized executive level correspondence to assist with required actions. I have participated as a member of a national workgroup or committee which implemented or recommended changes on a national level; and/or I have served on an Inter-Agency taskforce or workgroup which impacted federal, state, or local agencies; and/or I have utilized data from other data bases to identify or formulate plans to address weaknesses or deficiencies in a program or operation; and/or I have directed completion of an institution’s American Correctional Association accreditation; and/or I have chaired a task group which developed and implemented a change in mission for the institution. None of the above. 9 The Executive Assistant serves as a liaison between the Director and various levels within other federal government entities/state/county/private agencies and staff who have dealings with the Bureau of Prisons. &nbsp;It is imperative that he/she possess knowledge of the workings and policies which direct the Bureau of Prisons in order to advise and inform. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired program or operational reviews or comparable internal/external audits and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to senior managers on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committees to formulate institution policy. I have directed comprehensive reviews of division operations and made recommendations to realign responsibilities; and/or I have chaired a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have developed pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have worked as a supervisor/manager at more than one security level institution; and/or I have worked as an administrator involved with policy development and dissemination or oversight of institution operations. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at an institution; and/or I have participated as member on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).