Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: 1.) Providing specific interpretations and explanations of the significance, development, and/or importance of historical features; 2.) Answering visitors’ questions by providing an explanation and description of the background of events leading up to the historical construction and development, origin, growth or development of the site; and 3.) Ushering groups in an orderly fashion and keeping them on a specific schedule. 2 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience solving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I have identified customer service problems and notified senior employees for resolution. I generated ideas and proposed solutions to customer service problems. I independently developed and implemented solutions to resolve customer service problems. I provided guidance to others on how to resolve customer service problems. None of the above. 3 Which issues have you encountered and resolved in your professional experience? Answer to this question is required Facility maintenance needs Customers who are late for reservations or appointments Customers seeking a product or service that is no longer available Customers who request products or services outside of policy Customers who violate policies or standard procedures None of the above 4 Which operational problems do you have experience resolving? Answer to this question is required Customer accommodation or accessibility concerns Running behind schedule (e.g., interactions with customers take too long) Equipment malfunctions (e.g., computerized systems, stations) None of the above 5 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience gathering and organizing information. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience gathering or organizing information. I gathered and organized information in an academic role (e.g., to complete assignments, write papers), but have not applied this skill in my professional work. I gathered and organized information to complete a professional research paper or briefing presentation. I gathered and organized information to curate an exhibit, or make an informational/technical presentation. I have reviewed and prioritized information I gathered to create a standard presentation delivered by others (e.g., tour script) in a professional setting. 6 Do you have experience organizing information spontaneously to tailor your interactions to a visitor`s interests or needs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 On which topics have you gathered and organized information? Answer to this question is required American history Art history Artifact significance Architectural styles Architectural history Historic preservation Legislative process Legislative history Constitutional history Building preservation efforts Building materials used Artisan techniques None of the above 8 Do you have experience organizing information into a presentation that was personalized but still met content and timing requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience orally communicating information to others (e.g., customers). Answer to this question is required I adhered to a standard script to provide informational announcements. I delivered informational presentations on standardized topics in a format and style of my choosing. I customized standardized presentation topics by including information such as points of interest, details, jokes, or interactive content. I developed original presentations based on my own or other`s research. None of the above. 10 On which topics have you delivered an informational presentation to others? Answer to this question is required American history Art history Artifact significance Architectural styles Architectural history Historic preservation Legislative process Legislative history Constitutional history Building preservation efforts Building materials used Artisan techniques Historical informal None of the above 11 Select the activities that describe your experience orally communicating with others. Answer to this question is required Provided multiple-step directions to complete a task Explained policies that adversely impacted an individual Presented educational information Prompted interaction from an audience during a presentation Explained complex theories or concepts in easily understood terms Tailored communications (e.g., content, style) to the audience`s interests and level of comprehension Elicited information from individuals who were reticent Convinced others to adopt a specific point of view Used props enhance the story Responded to requests for information None of the above 12 Select the types of individuals you have worked with on a team to accomplish goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Individuals with a different level of skill than my own Individuals from a different technical discipline than my own Individuals with a different level of education than my own Individuals from a different culture than my own Individuals whose native language is different from my own Individuals from a different socio-economic status than my own Individuals from a different generation than my own None of the above 13 Select the types of individuals you have interacted with to ensure rules, policies, and procedures were followed. Answer to this question is required Parents or chaperones responsible for children Children Individuals who didn`t speak English fluently Elderly individuals Strongly opinionated or stubborn individuals High-status individuals (e.g., Members of Congress) None of the above 14 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked Offered coverage to ensure others received a break Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality was maintained Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets) None of the above 15 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience engaging customers from varied backgrounds. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience engaging in interactions with customers from varied backgrounds. I talked with customers about their interests during an exhibit, event, or presentation. I encouraged customers to volunteer information or participate in a structured discussion. I approached customers to encourage them to take advantage of offerings within a public venue. I persuaded customers to participate in an interactive experience (e.g., role play) and facilitated the activity. 16 Which tasks have you performed to assess customer needs? Answer to this question is required Monitored customer comments or conversations for negative information Observed customer body language Monitored customer facial expressions Observed customer mobility or physical capabilities Determined customer`s ability to communicate in English Elicited information from customers about expectations or satisfaction Proactively asked customers if they needed assistance None of the above 17 Which customer service roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Call center representative Hotel concierge or desk clerk Information booth Museum docent Usher at an arena event (e.g., sporting events, concerts) Tour guide Travel guide Retail associate (e.g., cashier) Personal shopper or salesperson Restaurant host or server None of the above 18 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience explaining or interpreting information about exhibits, amenities, artifacts, or events for customers. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting information for customers. I provided customers with basic information or facts. I provided a narrative that highlighted key information or facts for customers. I provided a detailed narrative with key information and facts as well as items of interest to customers. 19 Which actions have you performed to coordinate customer flow through a building or event location? Answer to this question is required Ushered groups of customers to designated areas Organized groups of customers in single file lines Prevented customers from accessing unauthorized areas Ensured entry/exit areas remained clear (e.g., asked customers to congregate in other locations) Led customers through established courses or routes Led customers through evacuation procedures in emergency situations Adjusted established routes within safety/security guidelines to meet visitors` needs and avoid unexpected safety hazards or maintenance issues None of the above 20 Have you completed training or coursework in delivering interpretive programming orally to visitors? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Please list the name of the certification(s) and the date(s) the certification was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 22 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 22.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.