Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in the following areas (must meet qualification for number 1 and two out of the four remaining qualifications): 1) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Utilizing purchasing regulations, methods, procedures, and business practices to make purchases involving specialized and commercial requirements; completing critical purchasing tasks in a timely manner; utilizing automated processes pertaining to purchasing and purchase orders; and preparing and reconciling purchase requisitions in an electronic financial system. 2) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Providing oversight of administrative and technical programs 3) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Receiving and managing requests for building services and providing oversight of repairs, maintenance, and procurement of various supplies, material, equipment, and support services 4) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Working knowledge of Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) to track work orders and service requests &nbsp; Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized&nbsp;experience must demonstrate the following: (1) Supervising administrative and technical staff, including managing workload, training, developing performance management, resource management and timekeeping (2) Planning, coordinating and directing the development and execution of strategic initiatives, standards, policies, procedures and systems to meet current and future operational objectives; (3) Performing complex analysis of facilities management and support services programs and operations and making recommendations to improve organizational performance; (4) Utilizing purchasing regulations, methods, procedures, and business practices to make purchases involving specialized and commercial requirements; completing critical purchasing tasks in a timely manner; utilizing automated processes pertaining to purchasing and purchase orders; and preparing and reconciling purchase requisitions in an electronic financial system Grade: All Grades 1 Have you been responsible for prioritizing and assigning multiple, simultaneous service requests to employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience evaluating employees and taking disciplinary action when necessary? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. None of the above 4 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interviewed job applicants. Approved/denied leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training for subordinates. Oversaw on the job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Supervised employees represented by a Collective Bargaining Unit. None of the above. 5 Which tasks have you performed to maintain accurate, up to date records? Answer to this question is required Entered information into a database Quality checked data entries Filed back-up documents (e.g., receipts, purchase orders) Retrieved information from files None of the above 6 Do you&nbsp;have experience conducting building inspections and ensuring repair and maintenance as appropriate for historically significant monumental buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select the statements that describe how you inspired and fostered team commitment - informed, involved and inspired. Answer to this question is required Promoted cohesiveness of staff members by defining roles and responsibilities of each team member and establishing overall objectives. Motivated staff by assigning work based on their skill levels and areas of interest. Included the staff in the decision-making process when developing mission and goals for the division. None of the above 8 Have you coordinated with vendors, contractors, and other external organizations?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Please select the answer that describes your level of experience using Computer Aided Facilities Management systems (CAFM). Answer to this question is required Basic Advanced None of the Above 10 Do you have experience providing administrative support to senior executives within a fast-paced team environment with changing priorities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 In which ways have you communicated with employees? Answer to this question is required Coached employees on job performance. Explained performance expectations. Led meeting discussions. Trained employees on new policies and/or procedures. Corrected inappropriate behavior. Advised employees of policies and procedures. Provided briefings on special events and/or unusual operational requirements. None of the above. 12 Select all responses from the list below that reflect the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts. Answer to this question is required Explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers. Planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations. Informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work. Collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals. None of the above. 13 Select the types of customers you have communicated with to coordinate events for an organization. Answer to this question is required General public Peers Event organizers (external to the organization) Event organizers (internal to the organization) Staff members for Members of Congress or other Dignitaries Members of Congress or other Dignitaries Federal employees Technical support personnel (such as caterers, audio visual technicians, labor crews, etc.) None of the above 14 Select the types of data you have identified and compiled using a financial management system to determine the status of funds. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Account balances Requisitions Obligations Payroll Historical budget information None of the above 15 &nbsp; Have you been responsible for prioritizing and assigning multiple, simultaneous purchasing requests to employees? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 &nbsp; Describe your experience prioritizing purchasing requests for action: Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 &nbsp; Select the automated systems in which you have processed financial transactions. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Travel reservations/expenditures Systems for making deposits for reimbursables (e.g., Intragovernmental Payment and Collection (IPAC) Financial Management Systems (FMS) while applying Appropriations Law None of the above 18 &nbsp; Which software programs have you used independently to analyze data and/or present results? Answer to this question is required Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word) Presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint) Publishing software (e.g., Microsoft Publisher, Adobe PageMaker) Web-based collaboration software (e.g., SharePoint) Financial management programs (e.g., FMS, MAXIMO) Reporting Software (e.g., Tableau) None of the above 19 Please select answer(s) that describe your experience managing and resolving issues to minimize negative impact. Answer to this question is required I have experience dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile or distressed. I have experience interacting and working with multiple levels of co-workers, supervisors and high level management. I have experience identifying and responding to critical events with diplomacy and action. I have experience staying with a position or plan of action until the desired objective was achieved or it was no longer reasonably attainable. I have experience persuading others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have experience guiding individuals (subordinates, peers, superiors) or groups toward task accomplishment. I have experience negotiating with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution None of the above. 20 Describe your experience coordinating with vendors, contractors, and other external organizations?&nbsp; Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.