Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Environmental Protection Agency About EPA EPA Careers Toggle navigation About EPA EPA Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: To meet the Qualifications Requirements for Criminal Investigator, GS-13, select the option that best describes your experience background: Answer to this question is required I have 1 YEAR OF SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE equivalent to the GS-12 level in or related to the work of THIS POSITION that provided the specific knowledges, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of THIS POSITION. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement described above. 2 Please select the response that best describes your experience conducting investigations of state and/or federal environmental crimes. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Please select the response that best describes your experience coordinating investigations with appropriate law enforcement agencies. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Select the response that describes your experience processing information (through evaluation and analysis) to identify and develop investigative leads. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Please select the response that best describes your experience conducting interviews and/or interrogations. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Please select the response that best describes your experience maintaining liaison with officials of federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies, or other organizations. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Select the response that describes your experience preparing investigative reports and summarizing investigations. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Have you ever participated in a physical security survey (i.e., when a team of individuals with separate specific talents, visits a location and assesses security vulnerabilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Please select the response(s) that best describes your experience maintaining physical security: Answer to this question is required Conducting of advances Motorcade logistics Physical security Site security None of the above 10 Do you have experience in preparing a schedule for a protective detail? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Do you have experience in approving and executing a protective movement and advance plan for domestic and foreign visits? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following leadership responsibilities have you regularly performed? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have lead projects or initiatives from start to completion. I have represented my team or organization in external engagements. I was responsible for driving change or innovation within my organization. I evaulated the effectiveness of program strategies. I negotiated with key stakeholders, including external parties, to acheive a common goal. None of the above I have no training or experience with this task. 13 Please select the response that best describes your experience executing search and seizure warrants. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Please select the response that best describes your experience as a lead agent in major investigative projects, which involved advanced investigative techniques such as audio and video surveillance, computer forensics, and link analysis. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Work in an environment typically characterized by diverse interest groups, fluctuating circumstances and sensitive, highly visible issues. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Please select the response that best describes your experience making arrests. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Please select the response that best describes your experience testifying before a grand jury. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Select the response that best describes your experience in making case presentations summarizing facts and evidence to a prosecutor. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 19 Please select the response that best describes your experience working on investigative actions that results in civil or administrative actions, judgments, sanctions, or decisions. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)).&nbsp; While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required Your response must not exceed 200 words. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?&nbsp; Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 3 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?&nbsp; Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal&nbsp;achievements?&nbsp; Please provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 5 For the four essay question responses above, I certify that I used my own words, and did not use&nbsp;a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the response that best describes the rating of record for your most recent performance appraisal: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (or equivalent) or higher Less than Fully Successful (or equivalent) I have never received a performance appraisal. 7 Please look at the qualification requirements (both experience and/or education) that are stated in this vacancy announcement. Does your resume clearly contain this information in order to determine you are qualified for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Identify the portion of your resume that demonstrates you have the required experience stated in this announcement. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Are you aware that you should limit your resume to 2 pages and that only the first 2 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications if you submit a resume that is more than 2 pages? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 For each position listed on your resume, did you include the position title, company, grade/level (if federal employment), weekly hours worked, and your actual beginning and ending dates of employment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you reviewed the vacancy announcement "How to Apply" and required documents section to determine what supplemental material that you must provide? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which resources led you to apply to this EPA position? Answer to this question is required EPA webinar or virtual information session 11.1 Enter month/year of webinar. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair hosted or attended by the EPA 11.1 Enter location, month, and host organization of job fair. Maximum length of 250 characters. Handshake EPA.gov/Careers Social media advertisement (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, or Instagram) Referral from a government or professional contact, friend, or family member Unsolicited search of USAJOBS.gov Email from EPA inviting me to apply because I opted to make my resume/profile searchable on USAJOBS Other 12 Select the response that best describes your rating of record for your most recent career or career-conditional position as a federal employee: Answer to this question is required My most recent performance rating is at least Fully Successful (or equivalent). My most recent performance rating is below Fully Successful (or equivalent). I did not receive a performance rating (not employed long enough to receive a rating). I have never been a career or career-conditional federal employee. 13 Select the response that best describes the SF-50(s) you are submitting to prove you meet time-in-grade requirements: Answer to this question is required promotion to the higher grade within-grade increase for the next lower grade SF-50s dated a year apart within the same grade/job at the next lower grade SF-50 showing I have held the grade to which I'm applying (or a higher grade) under non-temporary appointment none (time-in-grade doesn’t apply to me) View Vacancy Details This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).