Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor. Applicant must possess one of the following certificates. Institute of Hazardous Material Management (IHMM) , Certified Hazardous Materials Manager (CHMM), Certified Hazardous Materials Practitioner (CHMP) American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH) , Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP) , Certified Safety Professional (CSP) National Environmental Safety & Health Training Association (NESHTA) , Certified Environmental, Safety & Health Trainer (CET) National Registry of Environmental Professionals (NREP) , Certified Environmental Auditor, Certified Environmental Systems Manager, Certified Industrial Environmental Toxicologist Board of Environmental, Health & Safety Auditor Certifications (BEAC) , Certified Professional Environmental Auditor (CPEA) 2 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess one or more of the certifications listed above. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit proof of current certification. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Environmental Protection Specialists must possess comprehensive oral communication skills to convey technical environmental information to others, internal and external to the BOP. They are responsible for conducting meetings with skeptical participants, explaining BOP programs with community officials and the general public. They represent the agency in meetings/conferences with other governmental agencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed with a supervisor/asked for assistance when unfamiliar issues are encountered; and/or I have answered routine questions from co-workers; and/or I have presented information to a group of co-workers on upcoming events, training opportunities, etc. I have communicated environmental policies and procedures to other agency/organization personnel; and/or I have participated as a member of a work group to resolve multi-agency/organization environmental concerns; and/or I have facilitated a training course/presentation to co-workers/peers. I have explained new procedures to co-workers; and/or I have responded to inquiries received from other departments concerning environmental related issues; and/or I have communicated work status on projects to a supervisor during departmental meetings; and/or I have informed a supervisor of environmental concerns at a potential site location. None of the above. 4 Environmental Protection Specialists must be able to communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, following established rules and guidelines. They are responsible for preparing reports, responding to incoming correspondence concerning BOP environmental procedures, and preparing a variety of written environmental documentation and correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared, in final form, environmental update reports for review/approval by a supervisor; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of site evaluation reports; and/or I have updated supplements and/or internal policy to comply with changes to laws or regulations. I have prepared and submitted a weekly status report to a supervisor; and/or I have summarized project information for inclusion in a routine report; and/or I have drafted environmental meeting minutes. I have prepared requests for purchase for environmental services; and/or I have written reports and informational memoranda to the supervisor; and/or I have drafted recurring monthly/quarterly reports for review and approval; and/or I have assisted in preparing environmental update reports. None of the above 5 Environmental Protection Specialists are required to research, analyze and interpret information in order to develop, guide, provide advice, etc. on environmental issues/concerns impacting Bureau of Prisons current or proposed operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended corrective action to address an environmental deviation from policy for management consideration; and/or I have assisted in developing corresponding environmental plans or programs; and/or I have researched and analyzed local and/or private environmental regulations and recommended revisions to current procedures. I have conducted research on the Internet to maintain currency in established environmental laws, regulations and guidelines; and/or I have gathered information from federal, state and local environmental offices as directed by a supervisor; and/or I have assisted in preparing environmental project files. I have assisted in the analysis and development of environmental program objectives or procedures; and/or I have provided implementation recommendations in response to changes in policy or procedure; and/or I have researched and analyzed various sources of information to respond to general environmental related inquiry received. None of the above 6 Environmental Protection Specialists possess comprehensive knowledge of the various procedures, concepts and practices in order to assist the agency in developing and implementing programs in compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed material and data to make recommendations of it's applicability to briefing papers; and/or I have reviewed site inspection reports prepared by others to become familiar with the process; and/or I have taken notes during team site inspections. I have provided briefings to agency personnel when environmental related deficiencies occur; and/or I have recommended updates for environmental handbooks and manuals; and/or I have assisted with site inspections for compliance with environmental regulations. I have assembled material and data to be used/included with environmental briefing papers; and/or I have gathered updates of environmental regulations and drafted potential effects to agency programs; and/or I have participated on team site environmental inspections. None of the above Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).