Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and evaluating performance; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, Electrical Worker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience with correctional administration, criminology, penology or a related field; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e. safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems). I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. None of the above. 5 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be able to select and use proper material while working on electrical equipment and systems which include, for example, a broad knowledge of gauges, sizes and types of wiring, circuits and circuit breakers, conduits, couplings, fittings, relays, boxes, transformers, controls and distribution panels, high volt substations and related distribution systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Through training and experience in various fields of electrical work, I have knowledge of various electrical systems and equipment such as transformers, generators, line systems and power substations; and/or I have supervised or assisted competent journeymen in determining solutions of theoretical and the completion of work- practical problems concerning electrical equipment and systems. I have sufficient knowledge of electrical equipment and systems and experience to operate in any job that is normally done; and/or I have laid out, planned, and carried through the tasks of an electrician with limited supervision; and/or I have needed assistance or advice on unusual or special problems; and/or I have completed a formal apprenticeship program. I have sufficient knowledge of equipment to be able to perform routine tasks of the electrical trade without assistance; and/or I have needed assistance and required supervision for jobs which demand application of this knowledge in order to solve new problems; and/or I have worked as an electrician's apprentice. I have knowledge sufficient to enable me to perform all technical tasks without supervision and other tasks with a minimum of supervision; and/or I am formally licensed as an electrician; and/or I have received formal training in National Electric Code. None of the above. 6 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of the theory behind electricity and have knowledge of instruments such as: ammeters, meggers, voltmeters, ohmmeters, wattmeters, frequency meters, millivoltmeters with shunts, bridges, oscilloscopes, industrial analyzers, attenuator, signal generators, and phase rotation indicators. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have knowledge of electrical theory and am familiar with Ohm's Law; and/or I have experience which demonstrates the use of electrical test equipment to include: meggers, ammeters, multimeters, wattmeters, frequency meters, and ohmmeters. I have knowledge of electrical theory to work theoretical problems involving voltage, resistance, and current; and/or I have experience which demonstrates the use of electrical test equipment to include: phase meters, millivoltmeters, and milliammeters. I have knowledge of electrical theory gained in a formal education program (college level, upper echelon military trade school or a formal apprentice program); and/or I have experience which demonstrates the use of electrical test equipment to include: industrial analyzers, voltmeters, tube testers, oscilloscopes, and signal generators. None of the above. 7 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be proficient in the installation, modification, repair, and test of electrical systems, circuits and devices such as distribution panels, electronic controls, electrical warning, detection and fire-alarm systems, high intensity lighting systems, and power, control and switch-gear circuits. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have improvised tools and materials to aid in carrying out tasks; and/or I have applied new ideas to jobs; and/or I have adhered to good work practices such as following specifications, and electrical codes; and/or I have kept informed of latest theories in the trade; and/or I have followed OSHA safety requirements. Using pertinent manuals, electrical diagrams, and blueprints, I have made modifications in electrical systems and switch from one technique to another in accomplishing tasks; and/or I have used practical knowledge in contributing ideas for the solution of problems; and/or I have kept informed of and applied recent developments in the electrician trade to tasks as needed. I have adhered to shop practices in conserving materials; and/or I have accomplished tasks economically; and/or I am knowledgeable in the science of electricity; and/or under supervision, I have completed difficult tasks. I have conducted/performed arc and flash hazard assessments on high voltage equipment; and/or I have determined appropriate OSHA safety requirements regarding work on electrical equipment. None of the above. 8 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be able to effectively work from plans, blueprints, wiring diagrams and engineering drawings in the electrical trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have read and interpreted diagrams for internal and external connections of electrical equipment such as: motor controllers, switch boxes, and generators, on multi phase circuits. I have read diagrams used in installing or replacing generators, motors and transformers; and/or I have used schematics in installation of and diagnosing malfunctions. I have read and interpreted diagrams and used schematics while working with guidance and assistance in interpretation. None of the above. 9 Electrical Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use tools common to the electrical trade such as: wire cutters and strippers, drills, soldering irons, screwdrivers, hydraulic benders, heavy pipe threading machines, power actuated tools, coil-spreaders, tapping machines, lathes, drill presses, reamers, cable-pulling devices, pipe-cutting devices, balancing mechanisms, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the common hand and power tools of the trade such as hydraulic and hand binders, drills, and reamers; and/or while using the proper safety protective equipment, I have used equipment correctly and avoided damage to the equipment. I have used/maintained high voltage detection equipment; and/or I have determined proper safety protective clothing; and/or I have performed maintenance work on tools and equipment including preventive maintenance; and/or I have made adjustments on equipment to operating tolerances. I have used common tools and equipment such as voltmeters, and ammeters, as instructed. None of the above. 10 Electrical Worker Supervisors must have the ability to trace, locate and repair defects in electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used instruments such as bridges, voltmeters, and ohmmeters, to locate malfunctions; and/or I have diagnosed common troubles and determined a remedy using schematics, charts, diagrams; and/or I have located a fault and reset it (broken fuse and line). I have used voltmeters and other instruments to find loose connections and shorts; and/or I have worked, with supervisory assistance, to understand circuits. I have used schematics and drawings to determine the source of malfunctions; and/or I have used all necessary test equipment to locate and correct malfunctions; and/or I have sized and coordinated fuses for a complex system. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).