Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you&nbsp;possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to planting, growing, and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience related to planting and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials. I completed training or education related to planting and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted senior individuals with planting and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials. I have planted, grown, and tended lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently planted, grown, and tended lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials. 5 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to applying pesticides to lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience related to applying pesticides to plants/soil. I completed training or education related to the application of pesticides to plants/soil, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted senior staff with the application of pesticides to plants/soil. I have applied pesticides to plants/soil under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently applied pesticides to plants/soil. I have provided guidance or training to others on how to apply pesticides to plants/soil. 6 Independently performed the following gardening work activities. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Seeding lawns Dethatching Mulching Aerating Mowing Water management Fertilizing Weeding Snow and leaf removal None of the above 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience evaluating plant health? Answer to this question is required I recognized signs that indicated a plant was under stress or in poor health and notified my superior for problem identification and resolution. I have identified specific problems related to plant health and sought guidance on resolving the problem. I independently corrected problem conditions causing poor plant health. I provided guidance and advice to others in the identification and resolution of plant health issues. None of the above. 8 Select the activities you have performed related to turf care. Answer to this question is required Recommended type of grass seed for specific location and purposes (e.g., cool versus warm). Recommended location to plant turf taking into account growing environment (e.g., shade versus sun). Cut turf to the proper height for optimum health and growing conditions Aerated turf De-thatched turf Applied fertilizer to turf None of the above 9 Which steps have you performed to install sod? Answer to this question is required Graded the base smooth prior to laying Cut large pieces of sod Aligned angled edges of sod when laying to maximize coverage and fit Applied water after laying to optimize growing conditions None of the above 10 Select the objectives you have achieved from applying pruning techniques to plants. Answer to this question is required To encourage growth (e.g., fruit/flower production, stimulate healing) To remove disease To improve structure To remove safety hazards To improve or maintain aesthetics None of the above 11 Select the instructions you have read and interpreted to complete gardening assignments. Answer to this question is required Equipment operation manuals Pesticide labels Fertilizer mixing instructions Manufacture instructions (for chemicals, etc.) None of the above 12 Which documents have you read and interpreted to ensure your gardening work followed guidelines and requirements? Answer to this question is required Landscape designs Blueprints Work orders Safety procedures manual Safety Data Sheets (SDS) None of the above 13 Select the safety activities you have performed in a professional setting on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have attended safety classes to learn safety rules, regulations, and procedures. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required (e.g., ear protection when using loud equipment). I have reminded coworkers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of others in addition to me when performing work tasks (e.g., turn off blower while pedestrians pass). I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. I have trained others on proper equipment handling and other safety techniques to perform work assignments. None of the above. 14 What workplace safety training have you completed when performing gardening work? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Interpretation of safety signs (e.g., hard hat areas) Proper work lighting Safe chemical application Safe operation of gardening materials, tools and equipment None of the above 15 Select the small power tools you have used to perform gardening work (i.e., to trim plant material, etc.). Answer to this question is required Leaf Blower/Vac Chain saw Hedge trimmer (gas or electric) Auger String trimmer Stick edger Pole saw None of the above 16 Select the large power tools you have used to perform gardening work (i.e., to cut grass, to remove snow, etc.). Answer to this question is required Rototiller Ride-along mowers Push mower Snow removal equipment (e.g., snow blower, sweepers, brushes) Push edger None of the above 17 Select the vehicles you have operated to support gardening tasks. Answer to this question is required Skid steer Forklift Scissors lift Main lift Front-end loader Utility vehicle (e.g., gators) Work vehicles (e.g., cargo van, dump truck, pickup truck, box truck, step vans) Tractor None of the above 18 Select the hand tools you have used to perform gardening work (i.e., to prune or trim plants, to prepare soil for planting, etc.). Answer to this question is required Pruners Loppers Shovels Rake Hand saw Spade Action hoe or stirrup hoe Sheers Pole trimmers Trowel Pitch fork Digging fork Bulb planter Post-hole planter Machete Digging bar Backpack/hand sprayer Liquid fertilizer proportioner (e.g., Dosatron) Wheelbarrows or carts None of the above 19 Select the elements you have planted following propagation best practices. Answer to this question is required Bulbs Live plants (e.g., annuals) Seeds Container trees Shrubbery None of the above 20 Select the materials you have handled and applied to plants for cultivation purposes. Answer to this question is required Soil amendments (e.g., gypsum, sulfur) Mulch Fertilizer Water None of the above 21 Select the items that you have experience storing in the appropriate environment and conditions (e.g., cool or warm environment, damp or dry conditions, closed individual containers). Answer to this question is required Pesticides Fertilizers Seeds Bulbs Power tools None of the above 22 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.