Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate the following: (a) Planning, managing, and leading in the development and implementation of facilities management strategies, policies, and systems for a large organization; (b) Knowledge of and experience with Computer Aided Facilities Management (CAFM) system and/or a Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS), Integrated Workplace Management System (IWMS), Asset Management, and Space Management Software; (c) Developing new processes and procedures to enhance and expand the CAFM and CMMS systems&rsquo; reporting and analysis, and gathering capabilities; and (d) Analyzing data/information and measuring the effectiveness of facilities management and maintenance programs, systems, and operations. 2 Do you have experience providing oversight and direction of facilities management programs and systems for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have experience managing, coordinating, and/or leading in the development of CAFM-related databases to define and manage facilities management work processes, procedures, projects, and support contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following reflects your experience using Computer-Aided Facilities Management (CAFM), Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) and/or Integrated Workplace Management System (IWMS)? Answer to this question is required I have customized/configured a CAFM, CMMS and/or IWMS system. I have conducted training in the use of a CAFM, CMMS, and/or IWMS system. I have developed portions of a CAFM, CMMS, and/or IWMS system. I have performed CAFM, CMMS, and/or IWMS systems integration. I have developed requirements to select a CAFM, CMMS, or IWMS system. None of the above. 5 Which of the following systems/software have you used? Answer to this question is required Computer-Aided Facilities Management (CAFM ) software systems WebTMA or CMMS software systems Asset Management software systems Maximo Facilities/Asset Inventory Management software systems Other equivalent facilities management and maintenance, Space Management systems or software None of the above 6 Do you have experience managing a Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience serving as a Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for facilities management programs and activities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select the areas of management analysis in which you have on-the-job experience. Answer to this question is required Compliance management Facilities management Operations and maintenance Space Planning Budget and financial management Architectural and/or Engineering Design Program development and assessment Records management Strategic planning Policy development Project management Contract Management None of the above 9 Which of the following analytical activities have you performed in support of facilities management? Answer to this question is required Performed quantitative analysis based on a prescribed methodology (e.g. running standardized reports). Developed measurement standards or metrics for an audit/evaluation. Described findings from an audit that you conducted. Analyzed audit results to ensure compliance and appropriate quality standards are applied. Developed recommendations as a result of findings you discovered. Developed innovative solutions to resolve complex problems and directed corrective action. Monitored and reported on outputs from the quality assurance and audit process. Reviewed an audit report for completeness, accuracy, fairness, and conformity to applicable standards. None of the above. 10 Do you&nbsp;have experience directing studies and/or analyses of audit issues related to facilities management operations, policies, and initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education conducting and/or managing audits of quality requirements for facilities management systems and programs. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task and I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Do you have experience interpreting and explaining facilities management-related policies, procedures, or code/regulation to others? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you independently presented audit reports and compliance information to senior officials containing recommendations for revisions of policies and/or procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identified relevant and important information Synthesized data from multiple sources Discerned underlying assumptions Generated solution ideas Weighed alternative options Developed recommendations Validated support for arguments and audit/evaluation findings and recommendations None of the above 15 Select the contract management functions you performed on a regular and recurring basis in support of facilities management programs and systems. Answer to this question is required Evaluating requests for proposals (RFPs). Leading in the acquisition planning process. Reviewing quality control plans, providing qualitative analysis, and ensuring contract compliance. Assessing competitive bidding procedures. Conducting technical and cost evaluations of proposals. Developing independent cost estimates. Monitoring work processes to ensure the contractor adhered to established costs. Determining which contract type was most applicable to the situation. Identified problems or issues related to contractors' compliance with safe work practices. None of the above. 16 Please select the documents you have written? Answer to this question is required Business requirements Policies Audit reports Guidelines or procedures (e.g., SOPs, work instructions) Program evaluation reports Statements of work Presentations Summaries Position papers None of the above 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.