Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree in a field related to the duties of the position. I have 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree or L.L.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service that demonstrates the specialized experience as indicated below. I have a combination of education and experience: An equivalent combination of the specialized experience and the graduate-level education described above. None of the above 2 Choose the&nbsp;statement(s)&nbsp;that demonstrates your experience with Project Management Information Systems (PMIS). Answer to this question is required Apply information technology principles, concepts, methods and practices to deliver information management services to an organization. Provide support to senior analyst in the development and design of new reports and workflow processes as requested by the user community. Analyze information from Project Management Information Systems (PMIS) to assess reliability and effectiveness of construction project processes and performance. Use a Project Management Information System to submit, process, or record information for processes in which I am involved. None of the above. 3 Which Project Management Lifecycle documents have you developed during a project? Answer to this question is required Requirements documents Test plans Risk management plans Communication plans Project management plans Document control plans None of the above Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. 2 Select the functions of a Project Management Information System (PMIS) that you have performed in support of construction project activities. Answer to this question is required Held the role of system Administrator for e-Builder or similar PMIS software that was utilized for construction project management, including training and user support and development. Developed policies and procedures on the work processes, functionalities, and operations of an automated PMIS. Monitored and evaluated project performance through the use of a Project Management Information System. Processed construction project documents (i.e. RFIs, PCOs, Submittals, Design Reviews, etc.) in a project controls capacity. Developed customized reports and workflow processes for users and stakeholders. Made revisions to PMIS user guide to reflect updates of procedural and policy changes. Conducted studies in order to propose solutions to management problems and concerns; Drafted recommendations for program changes or process improvements based on an analysis of data. Analyzed policy changes to determine action needed and organizational impact. Participated in system upgrades, including requirements gathering and documentation, functional design documentation, configuration setup, and testing. None of the above. 3 Which tasks have you performed to analyze construction project metrics or data? Answer to this question is required Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g. percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables Developed spreadsheets Identified missing or late information Presented analyses in person None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience with e-Builder or equivalent Project Management Information System? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked, the title/role you held when you gained this experience, and the name of the software used.&nbsp; Specifically state whether you have experience with e-Builder and list all other equivalent Project Management Information Systems you have experience with. Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 2 Do you&nbsp;have experience in an Administrator role for a computer based software, to include creating and managing user accounts, access, permissions and roles? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience providing user support and training for computer based software, to include developing, monitoring, and updating training material and user guides? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 4 Select the&nbsp;tasks that you have performed in support of construction project management. Answer to this question is required Created and managed user accounts, access, permissions and roles. Developed customized reports and workflow processes for users and managers. Performed lifecycle cost/benefits analysis. Recommended new acquisitions and/or upgrades to legacy systems. Updated PMIS training material and user guides. None of the above 5 Which of the&nbsp;following tasks represent your involvement with implementation of related Project Management Information System projects? Answer to this question is required Assisted in defining the project. Assisted in planning the project and established project milestones. Developed requirements and evaluated potential software solutions that could meet those requirements. Participated in system design or development. Performed customer support including user support and training as part of system adoption. Developed and/or managed change/problem tracking system. Facilitated discussions and decisions to work toward solutions. Ensured deliverables met quality benchmarks and were on schedule. Participated in stakeholder outreach and management. Coordinated with Information Technology (IT) Specialists to identify internal controls needed to protect data integrity of the program/project. Ensured controlled accessibility to information systems to prevent unauthorized use and access to the network and system data. None of the above. 6 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience assisting computer users with application problems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience assisting computer users with application problems. I have completed education or training related to computer applications, but have not applied this knowledge to assist computer users. I have gathered information from computer users to identify potential application problems and referred problems to others. I have interpreted information provided by computer users to resolve application problems. 7 Select the&nbsp;statement&nbsp;that&nbsp;best describes your ability to identify and analyze technical and/or non-technical issues or errors within the Project Management Information Systems (PMIS) of an organization and implement solutions. Answer to this question is required I have received education and/or training in identifying and analyzing technical and/or non-technical issues and errors within the Project Management Information System (PMIS) of an organization, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have assisted others in identifying and analyzing technical and/or non-technical issues and errors within the Project Management Information Systems (PMIS), but I have not been responsible for independently recommending/implementing solutions. I have direct experience identifying and analyzing technical and/or non-technical issues and errors within the Project Management Information Systems (PMIS) of an organization and I have recommended/implemented solutions. I have performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in identifying and analyzing technical and/or non-technical issues and errors within the Project Management Information System (PMIS) and implementing solutions. I have supervised performance of this task or I am normally the person consulted to assist with or train others in this task because of my expertise. I do not have experience, training or education performing this function. 8 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing project management activities? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience related to project management. I have completed education or training related to project management but I have not applied it on the job. I have assisted project managers with assigned tasks to help manage projects. I have implemented project plans developed by others and made recommendations for changes when needed. I have designed projects and methodologies to achieve project goals. 9 Which project management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Established project milestones. Established deliverables. Set deadlines. Allocated resources. Aligned resources with goals. Created stakeholder communications. None of the above. 10 What administrative budget-related support have you provided. Answer to this question is required I identified costing and/or resources necessary to complete a task or request. I managed the budget and tracked expenditures on a task or request. I created schedules and corresponding deliverables and dates to complete a task or request. I interviewed stakeholders to obtain business or technical requirements and prepared a requirements document. I led a team that was responsible for completing high-level requirements tasks. None of the above. 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.