Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Successfully completed training in an approved school for medical records technicians equates to 1 year of general experience. No credit may be given for partial completion of such training. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree in a medical records administration educational program accredited by the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) and the American Medical Association's Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (CAHEA) meets the requirements for GS-5 positions. Successful completion of the requirements for a bachelor's degree (in any field) and 1 year in a medical records administration educational program accredited by AHIMA and CAHEA meets the requirements for GS-07. OR B. Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-05): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Planning, developing, and directing a medical records program for a health care facility that meets both institutional goals and standards of accrediting agencies. Evaluating and analyzing the organization and operation of medical records services, including medical records and indexes, and recommending and/or implementing appropriate revisions and modifications. Assisting medical and administrative staff in evaluating the quality and appropriateness of patient and health care services. Designing information systems to collect, analyze, monitor, report, and maintain privacy and confidentiality of patient and institutional data for health care related programs, and evaluating and implementing changes to assure the reliability of data. Developing and implementing policies and procedures for processing legal medical documents and insurance and correspondence requests in accordance with Federal, State, and local statutes. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: &nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Medical Records Administrator must communicate with others to plan and coordinate special projects, facilitate policy development, resolve problems, and present oral briefings of results to top agency officials. Contacts include institution staff, department heads and executive level staff, regional and central office administrators.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted facility inspections/tours; and/or I have presented training at a seminar; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event. I have briefed Executive Staff on health information management initiatives or issues; and/or I have provided recommendations to Warden/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with Executive Staff to develop and modify institutional programs; and/or I have made presentations at the annual strategic planning retreat; and/or I have facilitated professional training to mid-level managers; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve critical issues. I have interacted with other agencies to resolve critical issues; and/or I have presented a speech at a civic or community activity as a representative of the institution/ organization; and/or I have organized/facilitated agency activities with officials from other agencies, etc.; and/or I have represented the agency at national conferences related to health information management or served as agency representative to work groups and committees on the state or national level. None of the above. 4 The Medical Records Administrator must possess effective written communication skills to effectively prepare clear and concise written documents for a variety of federal, state and local units of government, executive officers, financial officers, regional and Central Office personnel, and the public. He/she is responsible for the preparation of a variety of correspondence related to medical needs and programs. The Medical Records Administrator must be able to prepare documents, reports, extracts, summaries, point papers, and position papers.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed agency policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries originating from outside the agency; and/or I have prepared detailed correspondence to others regarding critical needs or concerns; and/or I have prepared technical documentation for users of the electronic medical record (EMR); and/or I have drafted complex proposals for development or deployment plans, prepared briefing documents for Health Services Division management level staff regarding the electronic medical record (EMR); and/or I have written an article which was published in a technical publication, journal, newsletter. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have written a memo for all department heads regarding a newly established procedure; and/or I have served as editor of the institution’s newsletter. I have reviewed/updated Institution Supplements/local policy; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from executive staff within the Bureau of Prisons or comparable management level in the private sector; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have authored correspondence to local civic leaders regarding community programs; and/or I have responded to Congressional inquiries regarding constituent concerns. None of the above. 5 The Medical Records Administrator is responsible for assisting with planning, policy development and coordination of numerous policies on a variety of health care issues. This requires that he/she be familiar with policy and regulations concerning American Correctional Association standards, institutional operations, and security, in order develop and implement policy which impacts on institutional operations and procedures.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended changes to local directives based on changes in national policy; and/or I have ensured that recommendations for change in policy do not conflict with other existing local directives; and/or I have researched formal suggestions for change/improvement and provided comments on feasibility; and/or I have collected information and made recommendations to increase services provided to inmates; and/or I have gathered data for evaluating local practices and proposed changes aimed at increasing efficiency; and/or I have reviewed directives found in Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, Occupational Safety and Health Administration or American Correctional Association standards and implement policy changes which impacted institutional operations and procedures. I have participated on a team responsible for gathering data, evaluating practices and making proposed changes aimed at increasing effectiveness of program; and/or I have participated as a member of a task force charged with gathering, evaluating and reporting on a major issue; and/or I have participated in the management assessment process; and/or I have participated on a work group for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for further research; and/or I have analyzed employee performance and made recommendations for training. I have collected information and made recommendations to increase services provided to staff; and/or I have independently gathered data for evaluating agency practices, and proposed changes aimed at increasing efficiency; and/or I have headed a task force or team charged with gathering, evaluating and reporting on a major issue; and/or I have analyzed directives and provided appraisal as it relates to language found in Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, Occupational Safety and Health Administration or American Correctional Association standards. None of the above. 6 The Medical Records Administrator must have sufficient knowledge to assist in the formulation of national health care policies and must be able to provide expert advice to staff at all levels of the organization.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched current trends in clinical care, healthcare administration or health information management; and/or I have assisted in piloting a new initiative (i.e., tele-health, electronic medical records, information system management) which had a significant impact on national health programs; and/or I have researched regulations, guidelines and standards of accrediting body in preparation for new initiatives. I have provided input/recommendations for national policy changes; and/or I have developed policy based on a change in medical standards and regulations; and/or I have provided interpretation or guidance on medical standards and regulations to Health Services Division management level staff or program managers. I have developed procedures to comply with changes in medical standards or to improve efficiency; and/or I have participated in a Health Services Management Assessment; and/or I have reviewed and validated documentation to determine if within policy, as part of a program/ operational review. None of the above. 7 The Medical Records Administrator will act as a coach, facilitator and/or negotiator in coordinating team initiatives. He/she will have frequent contact with Health Technology Administrators, Health Services Administrator, physicians, and other health services staff throughout the agency.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given a department update during a department head meeting; and/or I have participated in a health conference; and/or I have provided training to staff during Annual Refresher Training regarding health issues. I have served on a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have negotiated with high level managers of health care organizations, insurance carriers, etc., the resolution of medical care issues/needs/services; and/or I have served as a presenter at a medical convention/conference on a health care issue; and/or I have presented lecture/presentation on the benefit of purchasing new medical apparatus to hospital management/administrators. I have negotiated resolution of issues involving clinical directors, managers and various departments within in a correctional institution/private facility; and/or I have participated in meetings with leaders of community health care facilities; and/or I am an active member of a health service governing body or governing board; and/or I have presented a position paper on a streamlined health care procedure at a national health conference. None of the above. 8 The Medical Records Administrator must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees and community treatment providers to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff, inmate population, and community resources in order to achieve the vision set by executive leadership of the division and agency.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required clinical information within a healthcare environment; and/or I have prepared reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs or services; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established work group to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have led or chaired a clinical project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).