Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under the special hiring authority for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Office of Public Affairs is responsible for reviewing and preparing a diverse range of reports and correspondence on highly sensitive and technical topics. These communications are directed towards various audiences, including high level agency and Department of Justice (DOJ) officials, as well as high level officials from other government and non-governmental agencies involved in criminal justice activities, the news media, and the general public. He/she must demonstrate exceptional written communication skills to ensure effective engagement with these targeted audiences.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws, regulations, etc., in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have developed, proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures, etc.; and/or I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (i.e., technical journal, magazine, etc.); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed speeches or presentations for high level agency or other governmental officials conveying the organizations’ positions on critical matters; and/or I have prepared and edited talking points and national media releases or statements. I have prepared draft articles for internal publications; and/or I have prepared memoranda explaining newly implemented policies or procedures to department heads/managers; and/or I have developed final reports documenting critical audit findings. I have revised internal policy supplements and prepared statements for media release; and/or I have served as an editor for newsletters and edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers; and/or I have contributed to highly technical reports/documents and prepared strategic plans. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Office of Public Affairs engages in regular and recurring communication with a variety of individuals, ranging from the media and general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must demonstrate comprehensive oral communication skills to effectively interact, negotiate and persuade others regarding the mission and objectives of the Federal Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have actively participated in team meetings or discussions; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit employees on issues within a specific discipline; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of new procedures; and/or I have provided information to the news media on non-sensitive issues. I have represented an agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their employees; delivered keynote addresses at high-profile events; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have successfully handled media interviews or press conferences, navigating challenging questions. I have briefed Executive employees on pertinent information; and/or I have delivered complex information through updates to stakeholders; and/or I have maintained audience engagement by facilitating discussions or serving as a moderator to a panel of expert participants. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Office of Public Affairs is responsible for overseeing all aspects of a comprehensive public affairs program. This encompasses managing media relations, devising communication strategies, and fostering stakeholder engagement. Leveraging technology and tools is integral to enhancing the efficacy of these efforts while staying abreast of emerging trends and best practices within the field of Public Affairs. This includes identifying pertinent issues affecting the agency, forecasting their future impact, determining optimal methods or techniques for reaching both internal and external audiences, and developing communication strategies for conveying the agency&rsquo;s message.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and executed communication plans for specific initiatives or events; and/or I have utilized social media platforms to engage with key stakeholders and build awareness; and/or I have evaluated and provided recommendations for improving an existing public affairs program. I have contributed to a public affairs related presentation as a member of a team; and/or I have developed press releases, articles, or newsletters; and/or I have participated in media monitoring activities or conducted research to support communication initiatives. I have developed innovative communication campaigns that effectively utilized digital media platforms to reach target audiences and drive engagement; and/or I have utilized data analytics tools to assess the effectiveness of communication strategies and make informed decisions based on insights gathered; and/or I have led the development and execution of crisis communication plans. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Office of Public Affairs must have a nuanced understanding of stakeholder perspectives, public sentiment, and emerging trends, allowing them to develop strategic approaches that align with the organizational goals of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He/she must be aware of the Federal Bureau of Prisons impact on the external environment and must be able to effectively anticipate and navigate external challenges and opportunities.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have anticipated and effectively responded to emerging issues or crises that had the potential to impact an organization's reputation or operations; and/or I have conducted comprehensive stakeholder analyses to identify key influencers and decision-makers, informing targeted engagement strategies; and/or I have successfully advocated for an organization's interests in an external forum; and/or I have served as an editor or writer for a national publication or newsletter. I have monitored and analyzed media coverage and public sentiment related to an organization, providing valuable insights to inform communication strategies and decision-making; and/or I have participated in organization events, conferences, or professional networks, expanding connections within the external landscape; and/or I have coordinated a listening session to obtain stakeholder perspectives. I have monitored news sources and social media channels to stay informed about relevant developments impacting their organization; and/or I have participated in stakeholder meetings or events; and/or I have attended a conference or training hosted by a stakeholder relevant to the organization. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Office of Public Affairs is responsible for effectively communicating with various stakeholders, including the public, news media, government officials, and entities from the non-profit and private sectors, regarding Federal Bureau of Prisons policies, programs, services, and operations. This entails responding to inquiries and addressing positive, negative, and sensitive issues affecting the agency. He/she must possess a deep understanding of communications and media principles, including the production, communication, and dissemination of information and ideas through written, oral, and visual media channels. Additionally, he/she must be proficient in crafting messages that inform, defend, and advocate for the Federal Bureau of Prisons position on various issues while adhering to legal restrictions, government regulations, and sensitivities surrounding the release of information. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have effectively managed communication projects or initiatives that contributed to the achievement of organizational goals; and/or I have developed and executed strategic communication plans; and/or I have successfully pitched stories to journalists; and/or I have secured media coverage for an organization's initiatives or events. I have led high-profile communication campaigns that garnered widespread media coverage and public attention, effectively shaping public opinion and driving engagement; and/or I have leveraged innovative communication strategies and technologies, (i.e., social media platforms), to reach and engage target audiences effectively; and/or I have developed a communications plan and led discussions with members of Congress and the news media regarding a specific initiative of the organization. I have contributed to the development of communication materials (i.e., press releases, articles, or social media posts); and/or I have participated in media monitoring activities or assisted with media inquiries; and/or I have provided information to a public information officer for their general use; and/or I have addressed sensitivities concerning the release of information. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Office of Public Affairs is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned programs, the coordination of the established mission and other related program activities and decision making which impacts overall operations. He/she directly and indirectly, supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly employee meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized a performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinate employees; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plan. I have met with subordinate employees according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinate employees reading assignments in their area of assignment; and/or I have advised subordinate employees of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. I have devised and implemented employee work assignments to maximize subordinate work product to increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement before taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in the subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).