Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement below best describes your highest level of education and years of experience? Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s degree in business, Public Administration, or a related field, plus six (6) years of experience working in a general office, public service setting, or court environment including at least one (1) year of experience in a position requiring data collection, analysis and reporting; researching, analyzing, interpreting, or drafting policies, rules, and procedures. I have a master’s degree in business, Public Administration, or a related field, plus five (5) years of experience working in a general office, public service setting, or court environment including at least one (1) year of experience in a position requiring data collection, analysis and reporting; researching, analyzing, interpreting, or drafting policies, rules, and procedures. I have a Ph.D. degree in business, public administration, or a related field, plus four (4) years of experience working in a general office, public service setting, or court environment including at least one (1) year of experience in a position requiring data collection, analysis and reporting; researching, analyzing, interpreting, or drafting policies, rules, and procedures. I have a law degree in business, public administration, or a related field, plus four (4) years of experience working in a general office, public service setting, or court environment including at least one (1) year of experience in a position requiring data collection, analysis and reporting; researching, analyzing, interpreting, or drafting policies, rules, and procedures. None of the above. 2 I have experience applying business analysis techniques, skills and knowledge in a court, justice system, or government agency. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Which plans/guidelines have you developed independently? Answer to this question is required Strategic plans Tactical plans Business cases Project plans Physical plans Resource estimates for staff levels, funding, and/or equipment Management controls Quality controls Performance measures Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery plans None of the above 4 Please select the statement below that best describes your experience in reviewing and understanding statutes, regulations, Standard Operating Procedures, and policies in order to advise, develop, and implement policies and procedures in an organizational setting. Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience in reviewing and understanding statutes, regulations, Standard Operating Procedures, and policies with the intent to advise, develop, and implement policies and procedures in an organizational setting. As a part of my duties, I was required to review and understand statutes, regulations, Standard Operating Procedures, and policies with the intent to advise others in an organizational setting. As a part of my duties, I was required to review and understand statutes, regulations, Standard Operating Procedures, and policies with the intent to report my findings to my supervisor. I provided my supervisor with needed information to develop and implement policies and procedures in the organization. As a part of my duties, I was required to review and understand statutes, regulations, Standard Operating Procedures, and policies with the intent to advise others in the organization, develop recommendations, and draft final versions of reports with minimal need for revision for implementation in the organization. 5 Select a response that best reflects how closely you have worked with executive level officials in your organization. Answer to this question is required I was appointed as a senior level advisor where I was called upon to advise executive level management officials on policies, procedures, and practices and made recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my findings. I was sometimes called upon to advise executive level management officials on policies, procedures, and practices and made recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my findings. Advising executive level management officials on policies, procedures, and practices and making recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my findings was a limited activity, not occuring often. None of the above apply 6 Select the audience(s) with which you routinely communicated, orally and in writing, in your most recent position. Answer to this question is required Executives Senior Managers Managers/Supervisors Judicial Officers Technical (IT) experts/professionals Stakeholders None of the above 7 Select those items that describe work activities you have performed aimed at solving complex problems and developing solutions. Answer to this question is required Business process reengineering. Cost/Benefit analyses of alternative solutions. Development of data reporting systems. Workflow distribution or reassignment. Business process mapping or flowcharting. None of the above. 8 Select the response(s) that best describe(s) your level of experience communicating in writing. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have written policies and processes to provide guidance to staff in compliance with established procedures. I have written narrative reports on institutional or operational achievements and/or needs. I have compiled and analyzed data and prepared statistical reports. I have prepared performance management documents with written justification or documentation. I have produced project plans, proposals and recommendations for programs, improvements or new initiatives. I have produced operational impact statements and recommendations for legislation, rules and case law. None of the above. 9 Which statement describes your highest level of experience applying organizational development methods and techniques to identify and solve barriers that effect work processes and/or customer satisfaction? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others in organizational development methods and techniques to identify and solve barriers or problems that effect work processes and/or customer satisfaction. I have been a member of a team that used organizational development methods and techniques to identify and solve barriers or problems that effect work processes and/or customer satisfaction. I have independently applied organizational development methods and techniques to identify and solve barriers or problems that effect work processes and/or customer satisfaction in complex, cross functional or organization wide settings. I have been a team leader in complex, cross functional or organization wide studies employing organizational development methods and techniques to identify and solve barriers or problems that effect work processes and/or customer satisfaction. I do not have experience performing this task. 10 What statement best describes your experience extracting data and manipulating large datasets to inform research projects and/or decision-making? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 How did you learn about this D.C. Courts job opportunity? Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Courts website USAJobs COSCAHR Listserve/NCSC Connected website Friend or Relative employed by the District of Columbia Courts Friend or Relative Professional Organization College/University Career Center Career/Job Fair, Conference, or Convention D. C. Courts Facebook page LinkedIn Other View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).