Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 [332] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [72221] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience using computer software, including word processing, spreadsheets, databases, email, and project management tools, to perform daily administrative and office tasks? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [845] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with inter- and intra-office communication. Answer to this question is required I have communicated effectively with co-workers within a team environment. I have coordinated work within the office with clerical, administrative and other personnel. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have made contacts with other offices within and outside the agency to obtain or provide information. I have received telephone calls, greeted visitors and determined where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members. None of the above 4 [870] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience advising managers. Answer to this question is required Persuaded managers to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take particular course of action Communicated strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis Presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals or needs Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations None of the above 5 [15428] Select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your communication experience, skills, and abilities. Answer to this question is required I have worked on tasks and assignments that have not involved a high degree of communication with other organizational units. Work outcomes have generally been communicated through a superior in my immediate organizational unit. I have effectively communicated needs outside of my organizational unit and at my general level in order to complete a task. I have effectively communicated with individuals both within my organizational unit and outside of my organizational unit who are above my general level to complete a desired work product. I had some experience negotiating work products with superiors from organizations outside of my immediate organizational unit which have produced successful outcomes. None of the above. 6 [7569] Select the type(s) of experience you have had in communications. Answer to this question is required I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers to others on a regular basis. I have coordinated meetings or workshops. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or other environments. I have successfully completed college level speech courses, Toastmasters, etc. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have no experience in presenting material orally, but I believe I could do so. None of the above. 7 [1414] Select the type(s) of administrative processes for which you have demonstrated experience providing assistance and technical guidance. Answer to this question is required Records management Recording/approval of time and attendance records Credit card purchase of supplies and equipment Organization and maintenance of case files Procurement of goods and services Procurement of telephone and computer services Preparation of Requests for Personnel Actions and Position Descriptions Preparation of travel authorizations and vouchers using an automated system Approval of travel authorizations and vouchers using an automated system Use of an automated accounting system Use of an automated correspondence control system None of the above 8 [1523] Choose the statement(s) below that describe your demonstrated ability to plan and organize work to be completed in compliance with timeliness requirements. Answer to this question is required I complete job assignments and duties meeting virtually all deadlines and timeliness requirements. I ensure that other staff members comply with timeliness requirements. I am able to respond to immediate and urgent matters while maintaining appropriate productivity for routine assignments. I use time management techniques to prioritize multiple assignments and ensure that timeliness requirements are met. I am flexible in shifting resources and adjusting work assignments in response to changes in priorities and directives from leadership. I motivate other staff members to complete assignments under demanding conditions and accept changes in priorities determined by management. I have little to no experience in this area. 9 [844] Please select the administrative process improvement task(s) you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have designed new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with existing laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with new laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have planned work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have coordinated work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have established work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have analyzed proposed processes to identify issues. I have analyzed existing processes to identify issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. None of the above 10 [3985] Do you have knowledge of and experience using web-based integrated automated systems to fulfill basic time and attendance functions, such as recording and tracking vacation taken, personal time taken, and work project time? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 [2531] Select the statement that best describes your experience using computer applications and presentation programs. Answer to this question is required As a major part of a job, I have regularly used computer software applications, to include expertise in using e-mail, the internet, spreadsheet software, word processing and presentation software. Experience with computer software applications on a regular and recurring basis, to include e-mail, the internet, spreadsheets, word processing, and presentation programs. I am familiar with e-mail and the internet, but would need additional training in one or more of the following, spreadsheet software, word processing, and presentation software programs. None of the above. 12 [2274] Select the statement that best describes your experience utilizing databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in utilizing databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents. I have completed formal education or training in utilizing databases, but have not yet performed this task on a job. I have utilized databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I have utilized databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents as a regular and recurring part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee I have independently and regularly utilized databases to maintain correspondence, reports or other documents as a major part of my job and I have trained others OR others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: 08 1 [333] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-08 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [72222] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience using computer software for program-monitoring functions in procurement and vessel maintenance systems to support the preparation of management and contractual documents or reports? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [72223] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience analyzing data from vessel maintenance systems and utilizing procurement systems to create task orders, performance reports, and financial closeout documentation? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [845] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with inter- and intra-office communication. Answer to this question is required I have communicated effectively with co-workers within a team environment. I have coordinated work within the office with clerical, administrative and other personnel. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have made contacts with other offices within and outside the agency to obtain or provide information. I have received telephone calls, greeted visitors and determined where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members. None of the above 5 [870] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience advising managers. Answer to this question is required Persuaded managers to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take particular course of action Communicated strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis Presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals or needs Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations None of the above 6 [15428] Select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your communication experience, skills, and abilities. Answer to this question is required I have worked on tasks and assignments that have not involved a high degree of communication with other organizational units. Work outcomes have generally been communicated through a superior in my immediate organizational unit. I have effectively communicated needs outside of my organizational unit and at my general level in order to complete a task. I have effectively communicated with individuals both within my organizational unit and outside of my organizational unit who are above my general level to complete a desired work product. I had some experience negotiating work products with superiors from organizations outside of my immediate organizational unit which have produced successful outcomes. None of the above. 7 [7569] Select the type(s) of experience you have had in communications. Answer to this question is required I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers to others on a regular basis. I have coordinated meetings or workshops. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or other environments. I have successfully completed college level speech courses, Toastmasters, etc. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have no experience in presenting material orally, but I believe I could do so. None of the above. 8 [6689] Have you been responsible for coordinating and planning conferences or special events? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [1414] Select the type(s) of administrative processes for which you have demonstrated experience providing assistance and technical guidance. Answer to this question is required Records management Recording/approval of time and attendance records Credit card purchase of supplies and equipment Organization and maintenance of case files Procurement of goods and services Procurement of telephone and computer services Preparation of Requests for Personnel Actions and Position Descriptions Preparation of travel authorizations and vouchers using an automated system Approval of travel authorizations and vouchers using an automated system Use of an automated accounting system Use of an automated correspondence control system None of the above 10 [1523] Choose the statement(s) below that describe your demonstrated ability to plan and organize work to be completed in compliance with timeliness requirements. Answer to this question is required I complete job assignments and duties meeting virtually all deadlines and timeliness requirements. I ensure that other staff members comply with timeliness requirements. I am able to respond to immediate and urgent matters while maintaining appropriate productivity for routine assignments. I use time management techniques to prioritize multiple assignments and ensure that timeliness requirements are met. I am flexible in shifting resources and adjusting work assignments in response to changes in priorities and directives from leadership. I motivate other staff members to complete assignments under demanding conditions and accept changes in priorities determined by management. I have little to no experience in this area. 11 [1404] Do you have experience preparing and maintaining time and attendance records? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 [72224] Select the administrative task(s) that you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job with minimal supervision. Answer to this question is required Utilized an automated procurement system to request items/services. Authorized to make small purchases using a Government Purchase Card Program or similar organizational credit card program. Verified billing records. Provided sole source justification to obtain goods and/or services. Independently searched catalogues, on-line vendors, General Services Administration (GSA) contracts, etc., for the best source of goods and/or services. Complied statistical data/reports and explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. Reviewed program reports to ensure compliance with established formats and inclusion of required information. None of the above. 13 [844] Please select the administrative process improvement task(s) you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have designed new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented new administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have implemented revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with existing laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have reviewed existing processes and procedures for compliance with new laws, regulations or program compliance requirements. I have planned work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have coordinated work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have established work-tracking systems to monitor action items and deadlines. I have analyzed proposed processes to identify issues. I have analyzed existing processes to identify issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to devise options for resolving issues. I have analyzed proposed processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. I have analyzed existing processes to recommend solutions for resolving issues. None of the above 14 [2531] Select the statement that best describes your experience using computer applications and presentation programs. Answer to this question is required As a major part of a job, I have regularly used computer software applications, to include expertise in using e-mail, the internet, spreadsheet software, word processing and presentation software. Experience with computer software applications on a regular and recurring basis, to include e-mail, the internet, spreadsheets, word processing, and presentation programs. I am familiar with e-mail and the internet, but would need additional training in one or more of the following, spreadsheet software, word processing, and presentation software programs. None of the above. 15 [2274] Select the statement that best describes your experience utilizing databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in utilizing databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents. I have completed formal education or training in utilizing databases, but have not yet performed this task on a job. I have utilized databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I have utilized databases to track and maintain correspondence, reports or other documents as a regular and recurring part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee I have independently and regularly utilized databases to maintain correspondence, reports or other documents as a major part of my job and I have trained others OR others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 9.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 9.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 9.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer 10 [72198] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 [72199] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 [72200] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 [72201] Please respond to the following question (in 250 words or less). How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).