Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 In addition to the basic requirements, applicants must meet the following specialized experience and/or directly related education as explained below. Please select the response that best demonstrates that you meet the additional qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have completed at least one (1) year of graduate level education or I have superior academic achievement. (Please refer to the “Qualifications” section of this job vacancy announcement for the definition of “Superior Academic Achievement”. You must attach a copy of your college transcript at the time of application to verify that you meet the educational requirements.) I have a combination of the above specialized experience and education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. (You must attach a copy of your college transcript at the time of application to verify that you meet the educational requirements.) I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience in the following: 1. Accomplishing developmental assignments utilizing basic techniques, procedures, and methods; &nbsp; 2. Understanding and completing limited engineering designs and projects; 3. Carrying out, interpreting, and explaining basic computations and calculations; 4. Performing routine and regular reoccurring work related to fire engineering; 5. Participating in assignments in relation to fire safety. 2 Do you have experience assisting with design-related tasks or projects? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No Grade: 09 1 In addition to the basic requirements, applicants must meet the following specialized experience and/or directly related education as explained below. Please select the response that best demonstrates that you meet the additional qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have completed at least 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree. I have a combination of the above specialized experience and education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. (You must submit a copy of your college transcript at the time of selection to verify that you meet the educational requirements.) I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience in the following: 1. Accomplishing developmental assignments utilizing basic techniques, procedures, and methods;&nbsp; 2. Understanding and completing limited engineering designs and projects; 3. Carrying out, interpreting, and explaining basic computations and calculations; 4. Performing routine and regular reoccurring work related to fire engineering; 5. Participating in assignments in relation to fire safety. 6. Assessing fire protection and fire safety designs of various systems, structures and buildings. 2 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Developed sprinkler hydraulic calculations. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop a fire protection system design. Developed engineering drawings for fire alarm and detection systems in accordance with NFPA 72. Developed working drawings for automatic sprinkler systems in accordance with NFPA 13. None of the above. 3 Which steps have you independently taken to resolve issues related to inaccurate drawings or calculations? Answer to this question is required Determined the scope/impact of the inaccuracy. Researched available resources (e.g., original drawings). Conducted a site-visit to survey the building. Updated the drawing or calculation to reflect accurate conditions. I do not have experience resolving issues related to inaccurate drawings or calculations. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. For additional information regarding the qualifications for an Engineering position, please visit OPM's Qualification Standard at http://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/0800/all-professional-engineering-positions-0800/. 2 What is the official academic title of your engineering degree? Answer to this question is required Chemical Computer Electrical Electronics Industrial Civil Mechanical Fire Protection Other None 3 Choose the statement that describes your experience. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Co-op or internship experience in your specific engineering field. Made technical presentations to an audience for the purpose of disseminating information/research findings. Performed engineering work in my field of study as a member of a project team? None of the above. 4 Select the task(s) that reflects your level of experience. Answer to this question is required Assisted with initial project investigations. Evaluated technical data to ensure accuracy, precision, and reliability. Adapted existing approaches and precedents to develop new methods and procedures for evaluating data. Gathered and evaluated survey data for planning, design, and construction. Conducted technical surveys to determine improvements in facilities. Provided preventive maintenance requirements to maintain safe and adequate building structure, service equipment, and systems. Reviewed contractor submittals for compliance with contract specifications. Documented findings and recommendations for design, construction, and operation of a facility. None of the above. 5 From the following list, select software applications that you have used to perform your work assignments. Answer to this question is required Computer-Aided Drafting and Design (CADD) systems (i.e. MicroStation or AutoCAD) Technical design/evaluation software Hydraulic Calculation Software (i.e., HASS or equivalent) Other hydraulic calculation software Other software used to prepare, evaluate, document, and produce design decisions None of the above 6 Select your basic computer application skills from the list below. Answer to this question is required Internet and e-mail Word processing Microsoft Project Spreadsheets Presentations Databases Graphics Drafting (AutoCAD or MicroStation) None of the above 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using MicroStation or AutoCAD to create designs? Answer to this question is required I have performed basic drafting activities (e.g., lines, arcs, ellipse, color changes). I have performed intermediate-level drafting activities (e.g., using references, manipulating element attributes, annotating/texting a document, dimensioning, setting up sheets/paper space). I have performed advanced drafting activities (e.g., creating/utilizing batch manipulations, programming macros with Visual basic, re-leveling utilities). None of the above. 8 Select the statements that describe your experience communicating with others. Answer to this question is required I have informed others on the status of an assignment or project. I have listened to others and provided information that addressed their specific concerns/needs. I have persuaded others to agree with or approve my recommendations. I have explained technical information to educate non-technical audiences. None of the above 9 Have you been responsible for managing a fire protection project or program for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 10.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.