Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your education and legal experience? Answer to this question is required I have a Juris Doctor degree from an accredited college or university and at least three (3) years of legal experience. I have a Juris Doctor degree from an accredited college or university and have more than three(3) years of experience. None of the above. 2 Do you have experience with Family Court law, rules and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have two (2) or more years of supervisory experience. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Are you currently an active member of the D.C. Bar in good standing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 My supervisory experience of attorneys and legal professional includes the followings: Answer to this question is required Managing legal services employees in providing legal support services and serves as lead in providing advice and guidance on the coordination of legal services that require interpretation from many different and unrelated case types, processes and methods. Providing authoritative information, technical assistance and advice regarding Family Court issue and policies. Monitoring and evaluating performance of legal services staff. Conducting performance appraisals. Planning, reviewing and assigning work. Resolving conflict. Issuing corrective actions. Writing policies and procedures. Approving and denying leave requests All of the above. None of the above. 6 Select the statement that best describes your experience with partnering and collaboration. Answer to this question is required I have extensive hands-on experience in partnering with multiple nationally-recognized organizations to achieve mutually supportive goals and objectives. I was personally responsible for collaborating with the other organizations representatives to plan, implement and evaluate program results achieved. I have hands-on working experience where I served as a team member, but I was not personally responsible for results achieved. I am familiar with requirements for partnering with multiple nationally-recognized organizations I have minimal knowledge in partnering with multiple organizations. 7 Select a response that best reflects how closely you have worked with executive level officials in your organization. Answer to this question is required I was frequently called upon to advise executive level management officials on policies, procedures, and practices and made recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my findings. I was sometimes called upon to advise executive level management officials on policies, procedures, and practices and made recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my findings. Advising executive level management officials on policies, procedures, and practices and making recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my findings was a limited activity, not occurring often. None of the above apply. 8 Please select the types of conflict resolution experience and/or training you have. Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have had training in dispute resolution. I helped my team deal with interpersonal conflicts. I identified and took action to resolve potential conflicts with management and/or employees. As part of my professional responsibilities, I facilitated "win-win" situations. Within an organizational setting, I built consensus through give and take. None of the above. 9 Select the response(s) that best describes your highest level of experience communicating in writing. Answer to this question is required I have produced policy documents, project plans, study proposals, and recommendations. I have researched and written reports, plans and proposals that support the business decision of the organization (e.g. making major systems purchases). I have prepared project plans, option papers, and recommendations on projects and assignments that facilitate management decision-making. I have prepared written products for technical purposes serving institutional or operational needs. None of the above. 10 Select the oral communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work. Answer to this question is required Presented information to high level officials, clients or customers in a formal setting. Represented a work group or organization at meetings or conferences. Responded to telephone requests from colleagues, managers, or clients both inside and outside of the organization. Provided informational instruction on an organization's operation processes and/or techniques. Delivered formal classroom instruction on the use of equipment and/or software. Answered public inquires None of the above 11 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience researching and analyzing bills, laws and regulations, to determine their impact and use your findings to formulate and/or prepare written recommendations for possible changes and/or implementation. Answer to this question is required I have significant experience researching and analyzing laws and regulations, and determining the impact on my agency. I also routinely prepare written recommendations for management. I have some experience researching and analyzing laws and regulations, and determining the impact on my agency. I have some experience preparing recommendations for management. I have limited experience researching and analyzing laws and regulations, and I have limited experience determining the impact on my agency. I have some experience researching and analyzing laws and regulations. I do not have this experience. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).