Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience in workforce planning and analysis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Please select the option that most closely reflects your experience in the development / application of workforce planning models: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in the development or application of workforce planning models. I have received education or training in this area, but have not applied these skills on the job. I have experience in the use of workforce planning models. I have developed and used workforce planning models to analyze human resource issues. I have developed workforce planning models and have advised or trained others in their development and/or application. 5 Which of the following have you done that demonstate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 6 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 7 Select the response, which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have questioned, interviewed or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above 8 Select the response that best describes your experience researching and interpreting a wide variety of workforce, position classification, and position management data to ensure compliance with agency and program goals. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 I have used my knowledge of position management principles and developed recommendations and strategies to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of program operations by assessing: Answer to this question is required Organizational structures Skills / competency mix Reporting relationships Management of human capital needs None of the above. 10 I have provided technical assistance to managers and employees in the following Human Resources speciality area(s): Answer to this question is required HR Information Systems Classification Recruitment and Placement Merit Promotion and Delegated Examining policies Position Management Organizational Design Executive Resources None of the above 11 Work as a member of a team to identify and resolve position management and recruitment problems. Answer to this question is required I have never performed this task. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task is central or a major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Please describe your experience in providing guidance on position management issues to include adherence to position management principles, strategic goals, workforce plans, and effective and economical position structures. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 13 Which of the following have you been fully responsible for to use analytical methods and techniques to resolve human resource management problems? Answer to this question is required Identifying broad problem areas through situational and survey analysis which, due to organizational factors or supervisory-employee practices, contribute to unatisfactory and improper performance and conduct. Recommending corrections and improvements in identified problem areas and assisting in implementation of solutions. Exploring alternatives and developing constructive and coordinated solutions to complex and sensitive organizational problems. Ensuring that solutions are properly integrated with related human resource programs and the operating needs of the agency. None of the above. 14 This position is responsible for producing a variety of written products. Please indicate which of the following specific types of written products you have produced as a regular part of a job: Answer to this question is required Formal informational announcements via email or letters to customers, supervisors, peers and subordinates. Issue papers or summary reports on organizational data, which includes analysis and recommendations. Position papers on controversial issues. Correspondence that consolidates input from a number of different sources (including contradictory viewpoints). Recommendations for solutions to policy problems. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. Responses to Departmental inquiries. Report findings on studies. Letters or reports to internal or external personnel outlining organizational capabilities, limitations or positions. Organizational assessments. Product / process evaluation assessments. Briefing and presentation materials for senior management. None of the above. 15 Please indicate which of the following type(s) of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Supported the development of strategic and tactical planning for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a strategic and tactical plan. Developed and presented a strategic and tactical plan with supporting justifications. Engaged in the strategic / tactical planning process. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a strategic and tactical plan. Applied organizational analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic / tactical decisions. Used white papers and publications for developing strategic and tactical planning. None of the above. 16 Please indicate which of the following types of written products you have produced as a regular part of a job in a human resources environment. Answer to this question is required Written material for briefings, meetings, or conferences. Written products to explain complex, controversial, and agency policies and programs. Reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. Issue position papers or summary reports on organizational data, which included analysis and recommendations. Responses to Departmental/agency inquiries. Written justifications of decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. Correspondence that consolidates input from a number of different sources (including contradictory viewpoints). Develop agency-wide human resource program policies, guidelines and reports. Draft agency comments on proposed legislation, changes to rules and regulations. None of the above 17 Choose the response that BEST describes your experience interpreting new laws, regulations, and policies: Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. None of the above. 18 Have you conducted research of administrative and HR procedures, laws, regulations, and policies and then produced written guidance or reports on your analysis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Do you have experience providing guidance, advice and assistance to human resources specialists, managers and supervisors, and employees to help resolve a wide range of HR related problems and issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe your work experience dealing with the public, employees, regional and/or central office staff communicating orally and expressing technical information in a clear and concise manner: Answer to this question is required Conducted pre-employment interviews. Provided guidance to employees on position classification policies and procedures. Provided guidance to employees on labor-management relations policies and procedures. Provided guidance to employees on leave policies and procedures. Answered applicant questions on qualifications requirements for a position. Explained employee development policies and procedures to employees. Reviewed course evaluations and answered questions from instructors in accordance with policy. Spoke to employees about employee development courses. Given an oral presentation to management on the results of a survey. Spoke to potential applicants about career opportunities at career / job fairs. Provided guidance to employees on HR / training policies and procedures. Contacted applicants to schedule interviews. Briefed hiring management on personnel selection procedures. Conducted training sessions on new technology for co-workers. Responded to administrative / technical questions from upper level management on a variety of HR issues. Provided technical information to employees regarding office procedures. Answered questions on promotion procedures; and/or updated management on the status of promotion actions. Counseled employees on career development. Provided staff training on a variety of human resource issues. Advised management in personnel areas such as insurance, benefits, leave, and/or staffing procedures. Consulted with OPM staff regarding an objection action. Responded to inquiries regarding eligibility requirements and application procedures. Conducted new employee orientation. Provided career development advice to new employees. Provided information to employees and/or staff members on how to complete forms such as training authorization form, course evaluation form, etc. None of the above. 21 Choose the statement(s) that describe your interpersonal communication skills that you have performed as a regular part of a human resources (HR) job. Answer to this question is required I have facilitated controversial / complex HR situations. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups on HR program or issues. I have facilitated the resolution of controversial / complex HR problems. I have developed and enhanced alliances with internal and external groups and individuals. I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to individuals and groups within and outside the office. I have communicated with managers and other Human Resources professionals to provide guidance and assistance in resolving difficult human resources issues. I have ensured that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have communicated with senior executives, managers, and individuals from the Federal, public, and private sectors to influence, recommend, and/or gain acceptance of complex and sensitive HR policies and issues. None of the above. 22 Choose the statement that BEST describes your experience keeping abreast of new laws, regulations, and policies: Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in this area. However, I have not applied this ability in work situations. I have basic level work experience identifying and solving routine problems using standard procedures. I typically refer complex issues to a superior. I have intermediate level work experience in applying standard procedures in problem solving and determining a course of action, and I have had occasional reponsibility for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I typically consult with others when appropriate. I have advanced level work experience in employing a rational approach to solving problems or selecting a course of action; routinely, independently analyzing problems or situations, considering the impact, rules, regulations and unknown management preferences before providing solutions. I typically am confident that the solutions I recommend are the best possible choices. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.