Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education. OR B. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs. Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels. Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management. Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minumum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 The Recreation Specialist must possess the ability to deal effectively with individuals of differing backgrounds, race, religions, sexes, cultures, and behavioral patterns.&nbsp;The Recreation Specialist typically interacts with inmates, co-workers, institution officials, contractors, manufacturers, entertainers, guests, community officials, and civic organizations to assist in the operation of a recreation/wellness/leisure program for incarcerated individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in coaching a sporting team; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions which encouraged increased participation; and/or I have participated in facilitating a training session on recreation/leisure program procedures; and/or I have assisted supervisor with ordering supplies and maintaining inventory. I have explained and assigned activity schedules to participants and coaches during planned meetings; and/or I have communicated league/team requirements and expectations to participants; and/or I have successfully proposed recreational program needs to supervisor, which resulted in additional equipment being purchased for programs being implemented; and/or I have performed individual/group fitness counseling sessions and recommended program referrals. I have briefed supervisor of workload/issues/concerns/questions on a recurring basis; and/or I have responded to basic policy inquiries from other staff members; and/or I have explained visiting procedures to institution/organization visitors. None of the above. 4.2 The Recreation Specialist must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;In addition, the Recreation Specialist must be cognizant of intended audience and tailor written communication accordingly.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared articles for publication in an internal newsletter, etc. (i.e., league standings/game results); and/or I have drafted announcements for upcoming events (i.e., leagues, holidays, courses); and/or I have prepared reports/correspondence for supervisor approval and signature; and/or I have assisted in preparing a proposal to update current policy as a result of new developments; and/or I have assisted in preparing annual budget requests justifying equipment needs; and/or I have assisted in preparing program plans at local recreation centers, health clubs, etc. I have prepared work status reports for supervisor; and/or I have composed internal memorandum explaining upcoming events; and/or I have ensured proper grammar and format for all correspondence. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have maintained written activity logs to document participation and daily program hours; and/or I have prepared routine, recurring responses to inquiries; and/or I have provided program participation information to supervisor for report reference. None of the above. 4.3 The Recreation Specialist must possess the ability to design innovative recreation programs and coordinate existing programs (i.e., leisure, wellness, intramural leagues, and extramural leagues).&nbsp;He/she must possess a strong knowledge of sports rules, exercise equipment, hobby craft materials, and safety requirements in order to establish recreational programs in a correctional setting.&nbsp;The Recreation Specialist is required to consider fiscal expenditures, individual and group needs, special emphasis groups, health concerns, and legal issues when developing recreation programs for incarcerated individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as an assistant to a youth group activities coordinator; and/or I have assisted in the implementation of activities for small group events at a youth summer camp; and/or I have assisted in the coordination of a youth league sports event. I have modified an existing recreational program to resolve issues involving fiscal concerns, participant level/age of participants; and/or I have reorganized an existing facility to accommodate increased participation levels, fiscal expenditures, or additional equipment; and/or I have updated an existing curriculum for a hobby craft or leisure program. I have volunteered to assist in a sporting event involving several teams of children; and/or I have served as a recreation coordinator at a youth summer camp; and/or I have served as a youth group activities coordinator. None of the above. 4.4 The Recreation Specialist is responsible for developing recreation programs, planning hours of operation activity schedules and coordinating number of participants, volunteers, and officials.&nbsp;To effectively develop program rules and program expectations, he/she must possess a thorough knowledge of the rules, regulations and governing policies or recreation, sports management, wellness, and leisure programs.&nbsp;From the choices below please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in scheduling multiple activities; and/or I have monitored day to day operations at a recreational facility; and/or I have assisted in umpiring/officiating team sporting events; and/or I have coached in a sports league or employed at a health club. I have assisted in scheduling arts and craft activities in an assisted living facility; and/or I have assisted supervisor in coordinating a bocce ball league; and/or I have as a member of a group, coordinated an end of season party for little league baseball players. I have coordinated a basketball tournament according to league standards; and/or I have umpired or officiated a team sporting event; and/or I have developed playing schedules, team sign-ups, rules, and regulations for an intramural sporting event; and/or I have prepared outdoor playing areas to meet sanctioned league requirements. None of the above. 4.5 The Recreation Specialist must understand current philosophy and guidelines regarding recreation, wellness, and leisure activities.&nbsp;To successfully accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess the ability to perform multiple tasks simultaneously with other assignments, along with planning and organization skills.&nbsp;From the choices below please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled and coordinated hours of operation and recreation programs for a gymnasium; and/or I have assisted in the organization and operation of unrelated wellness/fitness/leisure programs; and/or I have utilized an existing database to complete/track assignments. I have supervised unstructured recreational activities (i.e., open gym, playground, etc.); and/or I have utilized manual tracking methods to organize and complete assignments; and/or I have met internal deadlines. I have assisted with supervising unstructured recreational activities (i.e., open gym, playground, etc.); and/or I have utilized prepared manual tracking methods to organize and complete assignments/activities; and/or I have successfully met deadlines set by a supervisor for assignment/activities. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).