Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [1080] Select the one response that best describes your ability to work with others. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to work with others with minimal supervision. I have the ability to work independently and with others with minimal supervision. None of the above. 3 [4508] Choose the one response that best describes your knowledge, in a shop environment, of rigging while utilizing cables, slings, wire rope and nylon rigging. Answer to this question is required I have shop experience working with wire rope, cables, and slings under the direct guidance of higher level workers. I have shop experience working with wire rope, cables, and slings while signaling fixed and mobile equipment such as RT cranes and truck cranes. I have shop experience working with overhead cranes while utilizing wire rope, cables, and slings with some guidance. I also have the ability to make a few knots and splices. None of the above 4 [1076] Select the one response that best reflects your ability to perform heavy work. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to perform heavy work standing, bending, climbing, stooping and reaching with frequent rest periods. I have the ability to frequently perform heavy work continually standing, bending, climbing, stooping and reaching with infrequent rest periods. None of the above 5 [19402] Have you used mechanical and non-mechanical devices to remove accumulations of debris and lead based paint chips from the surfaces of ships in a marine environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [19395] Select the statement that best describes your experience using the proper techniques and tools in the remediation of exfoliated and exfoliating paint from ship surfaces in a manner compliant with state and federal regulations. Answer to this question is required I have experience using the proper techniques and tools to remediate exfoliated and exfoliating paint from ship surfaces in a manner compliant with state and federal regulations. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, and often assist others with this task. I have experience in a marine environment using proper techniques and tools to accomplish the remediation of exfoliated and exfoliating paint from ships surfaces in a manner compliant with state and federal regulations. I have experience in a marine environment remediating exfoliated and exfoliating paint from metal surfaces in a manner compliant with state and local regulations. I have a basic understanding of the techniques used to remediate exfoliated and exfoliating paint from various surfaces, but have no working experience performing this task. I have no experience and/or knowledge in this area. 7 [19391] Select the statement that best describes your experience installing and maintaining structural and non-structural Storm Water Best Management Practices on ships. Answer to this question is required I have installed and maintained structural and non-structural Storm Water Best Management Practices on ships. I have installed and maintained structural and non-structural Storm Water Best Management Practices in a marine environment. I have led and directed a team of blue collar workers installing and maintaining structural and non-structural Storm Water Best Management Practices on ships. I have had education and/or training in this functional area, but have little to no experience applying the knowledge in a work environment. None of the above 8 [1014] Select the tool(s) that you have used on a regular basis in your work experience. Answer to this question is required Jack Hammers Chainsaws Chipping Hammer Skill Saws Electric Drills Impact Wrenches Powered Sweepers Roto Hammers Torque Wrenches Crow Bars Acetylene/Oxygen Torches Pipe/conduit Benders Pneumatic Air Drill Pneumatic Air Roto Hammer Common Hand Tools Port-A-Power Jack Axes/Picks/Sledge Hydraulic Ram Set Open/Box/Adjustable Wrenches Hydraulic Wrenches 1/4" Grinder Lawn Mowers Table Saws Screeds Cement Mixers Ammeters Compactors Concrete Vibrators Soldering Equipment Brushcutters Multimeters None of the above 9 [4479] Select the equipment that you are skilled in operating. Answer to this question is required Air Compressors Forklifts Mobile Cranes Motor Vehicles Bridge Cranes Hydraulic Systems Operating Machinery None of the above 10 [19404] Select the statement that best describes your experience applying storm water management practices on board ships in a marine environment. Answer to this question is required I have applied storm water management practices in a marine environment on board ships. I have applied storm water management practices in a marine environment, but not on ships. I have applied storm water managements practices on board ships in a marine environment as a regular part of my job; and have often assist others with this task. None of the above 11 [19399] Select the training you have received. Answer to this question is required CPR (Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation) Basic First Aid AED (Automated External Defibrillator) OSHA Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response OSHA Forklift OSHA Climbing Safety Confined Space Entry Stormwater Pollution Plan Best Management Practices Lifting techniques None of the above 12 [19394] Select the statement that best describes your experience with proper handling methods, accumulation, storage and removal of Hazardous Waste Material in accordance with state & federal regulations. Answer to this question is required I have experience with accumulation, storage and removal of Hazardous Waste Material in accordance with state and federal regulation. I have some experience with accumulation, storage and removal of Hazardous Waste Material in accordance with state and federal regulations. I have no experience with accumulation, storage and removal of Hazardous Waste Material in accordance with state and federal regulations. 13 [2518] Select the statement that best describes your safety experience. Answer to this question is required I have not attended any formal safety training programs. My previous work experience required I attend safety specific training. My previous work experience required I attend safety specific training I have experienced no work related injuries caused from using improper techniques or by not following safety directives. 14 [5113] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions (e.g., bad weather, over extreme heights, near water). Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have applied my knowledge of general safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. 15 [3634] Select the type(s)of safety training you have successfully completed. Answer to this question is required Ladder/scaffold Fall Protection Respiratory Protection Overhead Crane Operation Crane Signaling Hazard Communication (HazCom) Lifting/Back Protection Asbestos Lead Confined Space Lock Out/Tag Out Small Craft Operator/Rules of the Road None of the above 16 [915] Select the safety equipment that you have regularly used in your work. Answer to this question is required Safety Shoes Safety Glasses Safety Harness Respiratory Devices Personal Floatation Device Confined Space Meter Hard Hat Grounding Straps Rubber work gloves I have not used any of these items regularly in my work. 17 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 18 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 19 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 22 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 23 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 24 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 25 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 28 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 28.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 28.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 28.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).