Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for the GS-14 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service including: expert knowledge of wide range of IT concepts, theory, computer methods and procedures; expert knowledge applying cyber- security and information security principles and concepts sufficient to plan, coordinate, and assess IT security operations and the security of data, networks, systems and applications; providing technical advice and guidance regarding IT security issues; conducting penetration testing, red teaming, audits and/or assessments of IT programs; conducting interviews with officials; conducting comprehensive analysis and studies requiring the application of complex analytical and statistical methods and techniques; and preparing audit assessment reports. I do not meet the specialized experience requirements as described above. 2 Do you have experience in applying Federal laws, regulations, and standards (such as FISMA, FIPS, NIST special publications, etc.) and industry best practices to IT security? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Describe your experience conducting penetration tests/red team operations, including exploitation, persistence, evasion, exploiting common web applications, and network penetration tests. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 4 Describe your experience with conducting IT system audits including reviewing and evaluating procedures, systems, or programs for effectiveness and compliance with laws, regulations, and policies; and developing work papers, interview and meeting notes, and written summaries of findings, reports, and briefing materials that adequately supports the conclusions reached. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 5 Describe your experience with conducting both penetration testing and deploying cyber-attack vectors in simulated network environments in order to conduct assessment-specific activities to identify and exploit vulnerabilities. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 6 Describe your experience with offensive cyber concepts and methods such as passive and active reconnaissance, infiltration, internal network pivoting and exploration, and data exfiltration in order to emulate adversarial actions and attacks and expose vulnerabilities when conducting red cyber assessments. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 7 Which of the following audit standards do you have experience applying? Check all that apply.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required General Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) / Yellow Book NIST 800-53A OWASP Top 10 SANS CIS Controls v8 Other None of the above. 8 Describe your experience recommending mitigation strategies and techniques to secure networks, and assist customer efforts to identify, analyze and develop defensive measures to thwart advanced intrusions of IT systems and networks based on penetration testing, assessment results and analysis. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or is normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 9 This position requires technical knowledge of IT penetration security tools, which of the following do you have? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Metasploit Framework. Invicti (Formerly Netsparker) AppDetectivePRO Kali Linux Netcat/Cryptcat Cobalt Strike Burp Suite Nikto CrackMapExec. L0phtcrack. Aircrack. Wireshark. Tenable/Nessus Core Impact Netsparker Aircrack-ng Social Engineering Toolkit HashCat Burp Suite Pro None of the above. 10 What experience do you have in planning and executing Federal IT audits? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in planning and executing Federal IT audits. I have formal or on the job training in planning and executing Federal IT audits, however no actual experience. I have planned and executed Federal IT audits as part of my work on a daily basis. I have planned and executed Federal IT audits as part of my work on a daily basis. In addition, I am normally the person tasked with providing advice and insight to others in my office knowledge. 11 Choose the answer that best describes your knowledge and working experience in network security, such as analysis of the following as related to networks: design, risk management planning, monitoring for vulnerabilities, access controls and other security protocols. Answer to this question is required Have comprehensive knowledge of network security and has led a team in performing complex tasks related to implementing or reviewing network security. Have comprehensive knowledge of network security and independently performed complex tasks related to implementing or reviewing network security. Have sufficient knowledge of network security and performed limited tasks related network security. Have general knowledge of but have not performed tasks related to networking. None of the above. 12 Choose the answer that best describes your knowledge and working experience in information security as it pertains to cloud based systems, major applications, and databases. Answer to this question is required Have comprehensive knowledge of and led a team in performing complex tasks related information security in these areas. Have comprehensive knowledge of and independently performed complex tasks related to information security of in these areas. Have sufficient knowledge of and performed limited tasks related to information security in these areas. Have general knowledge of but have not performed tasks related to information security in these areas None of the above. 13 From the choices below, identify those statements that reflect your experience in communicating technical and non-technical information orally. Answer to this question is required Chaired various types of organizational meetings. Gave presentations to mid-level management for purposes of obtaining decisions. Gave presentations to large groups (more than 20) within and/or outside my organization. Gave presentations to small groups (less than 20) within and/or outside my organization. Led or facilitated group discussions or Q&A sessions. Participated in panel or group presentations. None of the above. 14 From the following list, select the IT security areas in which you have working experience in conducting or reviewing . (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Penetration testing and/or vulnerability scanning Certification and accreditation and/or information security continuous monitoring Remediation of information technology vulnerabilities Multi-factor authentication deployment Analysis of insider threat None of the above. 15 From the following list of the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Cyber-security Framework, select the domains you have comprehensive knowledge and performed complex tasks (e.g., performed reviews of the area). (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required IDENTIFY PROTECT DETECT RESPOND RECOVER None of the above. 16 From the following list, identify the security certifications that you have: (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Security+ Network+ Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) Certified Penetration Tester (CPT) Offensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP) SANS GIAC Web Application Penetration Tester (GWAP) Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) Penetration Tester (GPEN) CompTIA PenTest+ SANS GIAC Web Application Penetration Tester (GWAP) SANS GIAC Penetration Tester GIAC Exploit Researcher and Advanced Penetration Tester (GXPN) None of the above. 17 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 18 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 19 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 20 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 21 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 22 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).