Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a wood crafter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to wood crafting but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform wood crafting activities. I have independently performed wood crafting activities. None of the above. 3 Do you possess journey-level woodcrafting or carpentry skills? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. 4 Select the types of millwork you have fabricated to meet specifications. Answer to this question is required Cabinets Shelving units Desks Molding (e.g., crown molding, chair rail) Chairs Picture frames Doors Conference tables None of the above 5 Do you have experience creating exact replicas of wood work (e.g., chairs, doors) to maintain historical relevance/architectural style when replacing damaged items? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Select the items from the following list that you have experience installing. Choose all that apply. Answer to this question is required Rafters Doors (metal and wood) Windows Paneling Staircases Baseboards Molding / Trim Bookcases / Wall units / Cabinets Inlay work Studs (metal and wood) Drywall Acoustic ceilings None of the above 7 What types of wood products have you used? Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes None of the above 8 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret woodworking instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, sketches, building plans and complex or incomplete instructions that required extensive knowledge of woodworking terms and procedures. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical woodworking experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of wood structures and articles. Followed drawings, instructions, building plans, and other references in making repairs and installations of wooden materials in commercial and industrial facilities. None of the above. 9 Do you have experience performing wood crafter activities (e.g., fabricating, installing, repairing wood work) in a commercial setting? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 What tools have you used to perform precise, intricate carpentry and woodcraft work? Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill presses Sanders Mortises Dado blades Engravers / CNC None of the above 11 Select the types of tools you have operated independently to perform wood crafter activities. Answer to this question is required Measuring tools (e.g., tape measure) Basic hand tools (e.g., plane, variable speed drill, hand saw) Advanced hand tools (e.g., moulder, mortiser, table saw) Pneumatic tools (e.g., clamps, floor nailers, air sanders) Automated tools with Computer Numerical Control (CNC) (e.g., shaper, router, lathe) None of the above 12 Do you have experience selecting wood species to match the appearance of wood items when making repairs? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing wood work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out carpentry work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Determined work sequences and types of lumber and special related materials needed to complete assigned projects. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber and/or wood substitute materials required and the type of tools to use for the job. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. None of the above. 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.