Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to conduct business and product analyses for SharePoint Online and Power Platform.** The ability to understand the business needs of an agency/organization and relate those needs to technical requirements needed to define IT solutions developed on SharePoint Online or the Power Platform. This includes the ability to plan, analyze, and design applications to meet Library organizational and patron user needs and in doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) conducted requirements analyses to define opportunities for new features and functionality; 2) synthesized, clarified, defined, and documented complex user requirements and technical requirements; 3) conducted market research, cost estimation and created procurement packages; 4) worked with stakeholders to develop test plans, execute testing, and record results; 5) ensured the integration and implementation of applications; and 6) worked with business stakeholder to define and develop product-focused solutions. Answer to this question is required As a business analyst, performed ALL tasks listed above in conducting systems analysis and design for MULTIPLE COMPLEX applications. As a primary job responsibility, performed FOUR or FIVE tasks listed above in conducting systems analysis and design for MULTIPLE complex applications. As a primary job responsibility, performed AT LEAST THREE tasks listed above in conducting systems analysis and design for MULTIPLE complex application. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to develop customer-focused, product-based enterprise IT solutions using SharePoint Online and Power Platform.** Managed product and program implementations for SharePoint Online and Power Platform with a positive and professional service orientation. Worked with customer stakeholders to ensure technical systems implementations matched business requirements and served customer needs. Managed complex customer communications with both non-technical business stakeholders and the IT enterprise. Used program and product management expertise to keep project schedules on time, keep customers informed, seek and incorporate customer feedback, and handle risks, issues, and complaints effectively. Answer to this question is required As a business analyst, developer, administrator, or technical SME, proactively kept customers apprised of the status of MULTIPLE, SIMULTANEOUS projects leveraging SharePoint Online and/or the Power Platform. Provided timely responses to customer inquiries, and resolved highly unusual, difficult, or sensitive issues. As a business analyst, developer, administrator, or technical SME, proactively kept customers apprised of the status of MULTIPLE projects leveraging SharePoint Online and/or the Power Platform. Provided timely responses to customer inquiries, and resolved highly unusual, difficult, or sensitive issues. As an IT professional, provided timely response to customer inquiries about SharePoint Online and/or the Power Platform. Provided status of requests, and resolved unusual, difficult, or sensitive requests or complaints. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to analyze and develop solutions to organizational and operational issues, requirements, and problems leveraging SharePoint Online and/or the Power Platform.** Developed, planned, and implemented the strategies and technical work necessary to coordinate and solve organizational and operational issues and problems on enterprise-scale projects using SharePoint Online and /or the Power Platform. This includes the ability to set priorities among multiple workstreams, integrated systems, and worked effectively within an Agile, iterative environment under the pressure of tight time frames and rigid deadlines. Answer to this question is required Solved a highly complex technical problem with critical consequences that impacted an entire organization within a constrained time frame using SharePoint Online and /or the Power Platform. Considered multiple options for resolving problem and the long-range implications of each option before arriving at a decision. Solved a complex technical problem with important consequences for the organization using SharePoint Online and /or the Power Platform. Contributed to the resolution of a complex technical problem with important consequences for the organization using SharePoint Online and /or the Power Platform. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to work in an Agile project and product-management process.** Achieved desired outcomes on projects, on-time and within budget. This included: 1) meeting project milestones within a multi-workstream environment; 2) controlling and delivering project deliverables; 3) identifying problems, assessing risk, and evaluating potential solutions; 4) managing project requirements and user expectations in an Agile software development and implementation environment; 5) optimizing the contribution of the people involved; 6) clarifying positions and differences in expectations; 7) facilitating discussions to work toward solutions; and 8) evaluating accomplishments and lessons learned. Answer to this question is required As a business analyst, participated in IT application development projects and executed ALL of the above tasks on MULTIPLE, SIMULTANEOUS projects. As a business analyst, participated in IT application development projects and executed SIX OR SEVEN of the above tasks on MULTIPLE projects. As a key team member, participated in IT application development projects and executed FOUR OR FIVE of the above tasks on MULTIPLE projects. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).