Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. 2 Which of the following activities represents your experience as a project manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led the planning, organization and execution of projects with multiple components. I have developed project timelines and milestones. I have overseen project budgets and expenses. I have tracked the progress of projects. I have overseen project procurement. I have developed contract specifications. I have coordinated multi-departmental project reviews at various stages. I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following represents your level of experience developing budgets and spending plans as a Project Manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed one or more multiple-year project budgets. I have developed one or more projects with a mixture of time-limited and no-year funding. I have developed one or more projects with multiple funding streams. I have managed projects with individual contractors. None of the above 4 Which of the following describes your experience monitoring a budget for a project? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed one or more projects for which I approved expenditures. I have monitored project expenditures and kept leadership informed. I have monitored project expenditures and alerted leadership to overspending. I have monitored project expenditures and identified potential cost reductions to avoid overspending. I have monitored project expenditures and kept leadership informed. I have not monitored project expenditures in any of these manners. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships among organizations and across departments? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners in a museum setting. I have experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships, but only with only external partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships, but only with only internal partners. I do not have any experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships. 6 Which of the following statements describe your experience leading teams and moving project(s) through all phases of development? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience leading teams on developing project plans, schedules and milestones. I have intermediate experience leading teams on developing project plans, schedules and milestones. I have completed training in project management and/or leadership and contributed to the development of project plans, schedules and milestones. I have no experience in this area. 7 Which project(s) have you managed from concept through completion for a museum or comparable educational institution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Photography or showcase exhibits Changing galleries Symposium/s Festivals Major installations None of the above 8 Which of the following activities represent your experience in managing purchasing and contracting as a Project Manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a contracting representative. I have performed market research and obtained quotes for simple acquisitions. I have served on contract evaluation and selection committees. I have developed purchase orders. I have monitored contract performance and approved work for payment. I have monitored multiple contracts with varying schedules. I have managed rights-in-data or similar permissions for digital and traditional images. I have written statements of work for Requests for Proposals (RFPs) or Requests for Quotations (RFQs). None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing and executing Statements of Work (SOWs), Requests for Proposals (RFPs) or Requests for Quotations (RFQs)? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience performing this task. I have had training on how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 Which of the following best reflects your ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required On behalf of my supervisor/manager I have assisted in orally presenting ideas and decisions which are routine in nature to co-workers and a variety of individuals. I have communicated regularly with co-workers and professional colleagues providing detailed information. I communicate daily with colleagues, vendors, and contractors discussing programmatic issues, negotiating resolutions to project concerns, and disseminating detailed project information. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Please describe your experience communicating with a diverse audience in technical and non-technical terms. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Contact others in writing to obtain information. Write reports and other materials for a specific audience. Prepare written presentations of factual data and information. Present factual data and information in person. Conduct briefings, meetings, or conferences. Explain nontechnical information in writing. Explain nontechnical information in person. Contact individuals or offices in writing of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. None of the above 12 Do you have experience reviewing licensing agreements? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.