Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Supervisory Production Controller has contact with all types of sources inside and outside of the agency, such as factory personnel, correctional managers, customers, vendors, private sector, and representatives of other federal agencies. He/she must be able to communicate effectively for such purpose as maintaining good customer relations and facilitating the flow of factory operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed technical product related inventory and quality assurance issues; and/or I have made an oral presentation to customers; and/or I have provided guidance to a peer on production planning and scheduling procedures; and/or I have trained a person to complete a certain task; and/or I have provided answers to others about a particular project. I have discussed production specifications and discrepancies with supervisor; and/or I have responded to complex inquiries received from customers; and/or I have advised department heads of changes made to industrial operations; and/or I have worked as a technical representative for a manufacturer; and/or I have briefed superiors on the status of a project. I have spoken to vendors to confirm correct materials were ordered/received; and/or I have discussed procurement issues with support staff; and/or I have contacted vendors to schedule deliveries of materials; and/or I have briefed staff in office about the outcome of a project; and/or I have participated in staff meetings; and/or I have organized a company activity. None of the above. 3 The Supervisory Production Controller must be knowledgeable in all phases of the operation including production planning, production flow, plant layout, equipment used, and specifications required. This knowledge is essential in making industrial recommendations relative to production flow patterns, equipment requirements, production planning, and ensuring end product meets customer specifications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have checked for material availability to run a job order on the floor; and/or I have supervised an inmate or staff crew; and/or I have referred to drawings for compliance to customer’s specifications. I have inspected manufactured products to ensure compliance with specifications and drawings; and/or I have provided guidance on production procedures; and/or I have provided technical information by facilitating a training session to explain new product requirements, equipment, etc.; and/or I have planned the workflow of a new product production line; and/or I have assisted the supervisor in the research and development of a new product line; and/or I have identified manufacturing defects and made adjustments for producing products; and/or I have identified new processes which increased efficiency and reduced cost in a factory; and/or I have coordinated the purchasing and receipt of raw materials. I have monitored finished goods to ensure adherence to customer specifications; and/or I have supervised, trained, and managed inmate crews/others in operating machinery; and/or I have monitored and maintained adherence to the production schedule in a factory. None of the above. 4 The Supervisory Production Controller must be able to communicate with people at various levels by writing in a clear and concise manner. He/she must be able to respond to inquiries and convey information to staff, customers, and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared inventory contract requirement; and/or I have prepared memorandums of agreement; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have completed interoffice memos; and/or I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have prepared justification for the purchase of updated equipment or supplies. I have written determinations and findings that documented actions taken in contracts; and/or I have responded in writing to inquiries from vendors/customers on sensitive issues; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have developed organizational procedures; and/or I have developed guidance material for staff use. None of the above. 5 The Supervisory Production Controller is responsible for planning production, laying out process steps and specifying equipment needs for workstations. He/she must possess knowledge and understanding of Enterprise Resource Planning software, such as Systems, Applications and Products to effectively plan production and schedule the manufacturing cycle. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a training class/course in Order Entry for Systems, Applications and Products or another Enterprise Resource Planning system; and/or I have checked the operating system for raw material availability; and/or I have printed reports to determine daily production requirements. I have used Systems, Applications and Products or another Enterprise Resource Planning system to enter and track incoming and outgoing customer orders; and/or I have used Systems, Applications and Products or another Enterprise Resource Planning system to retrieve and evaluate incoming customer data required to document/prepare weekly/monthly/quarterly report; and/or I have used Systems, Applications and Products or another Enterprise Resource Planning system to monitor and identify any deviations in sales, earning or production reports. I have retrieved daily/weekly production schedules in a factory; and/or I have checked the automated system daily to determine new customer orders; and/or I have printed production, sales and earnings reports from Systems, Applications and Products or another Enterprise Resource Planning system; and/or I have reviewed spreadsheets production data for accuracy for a factory/industrial operation. None of the above. 6 The Supervisory Production Controller supervises and evaluates the performance of subordinates.&nbsp; He/she also maintains subordinate workflow and handles training needs, grievances, recommendation for staff awards, reassignments, disciplinary, and more. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have given subordinates assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have supervised and organized inmate or staff work assignment. I have interacted with supervisors/foremen to stay informed of the workflow from factory management and from inmates or staff workers; and/or I have ensured problems were immediately addressed and resolution provided; and/or I have provided and ensured subordinates provided quality service to customers to maintain efficient operations. I have utilized existing tracking systems and programs to ensure assignments and deadlines were met by the subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinates’ job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).