Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with them, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated materials and manpower needed; and/or I have provided training to new workers; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have experience supervising workers in a production environment; and/or I have determined material time, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained employees, intermediate workers or helpers; and/or I have supervised large inmate crew in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs. I have experience in leading small groups of workers; and/or I have requested materials and manpower needed; and/or I have served as team lead on work assignments None of the above. 4 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have indicated interested in working in a correctional institution during an interview; and/or I have displayed no negative information concerning aptitude for work with prisoners. I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 5 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have a variety of experience in general manufacturing processes related to the fabric and/or garment manufacturing field. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in the manufacturing of clothing or fabric goods where quality control applies; and/or I have experience manufacturing garments and/or worked with patterns and markers; and/or I have ability to understand patterns; and/or I have worked in a laundry operation that required alterations of garments. I have experience in a manufacturing plant where commercial procedures are used and the experience involved the total manufacturing process; and/or I have determined yardage requirements; and/or I have matched pattern and weave; and/or I have made alterations. I have performed the manufacturing processes of assembly of any product; and/or I have matched colors and fabric; and/or I have cut and measured materials to specific lengths and width; and/or I have laid out simple patterns. None of the above. 6 Fabric Worker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of new and up-to-date practices in the manufacturing field and the ability to use trade theory in doing more demanding or precise tasks. They must have experience in inventing new ways to do tasks that can not be done by established procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in a production environment; and/or I was part of a production line which required minor inspections of raw materials or finished products; and/or I have assisted in inspection of raw materials or finished products. I have experience in the common manufacturing process of products; and/or I have worked in an environment which required drawings and/or specifications; and/or I have demonstrated ability to diagnose difficult production problems. I have made modifications to manufacturing line to accomplish increased productivity; and/or I have made repairs or alterations. None of the above. 7 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have the ability to select methods to complete manufacturing of a particular item; and/or I have instructed others on how to complete tasks in a manufacturing environment or in general; and/or I have completed manufacturing according to customer specifications. I have the ability to follow general instructions used for repairs; and/or I have followed manuals and procedures to complete work; and/or I have followed instructions to complete manufacturing operations. I have performed work based on simple oral and written instructions from supervisor; and/or I have experience making simple alterations with supervision; and/or I have followed supervisor's instructions on new procedures. None of the above. 8 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use mearsuring tools to lay out work from sketches, drawings or specifications, common to the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made measurements using common measuring devices; and/or I have knowledge of measuring; and/or I have assisted in a process which involved measuring. I have made measurements using common measuring devices and lay out work; and/or I have the ability to do simple calculations to determine yardage; and/or I have the ability to mark parts for assembly. I have made close tolerance measurements; and/or I have laid out work and materials; and/or I have performed checks and made necessary adjustments. None of the above. 9 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use and maintain tools, instruments and related equipment for manufacturing end items and/or garments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have the ability to use common tools to assist in manufacturing processes, sewing or sewing alterations such as irons, sewing machines, needle and thread. I have used rulers and/or yardsticks; and/or I have been involved in a process which required measurement tools; and/or I have assisted in a process which involved measuring. I have used rulers and/or other measuring devices; and/or I have used sewing equipment; and/or I have been responsible for selecting proper tools and materials to complete jobs; and/or I have taught others to use machinery. None of the above. 10 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of all the materials used in the variety of trades included in this job. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chosen proper material or made substitutions with assistance; and/or I have sewn simple fabrics such as cotton, rayon, and/or polyester; and/or I have worked with raw materials in one or more trades. I have knowledge of fabrics, elasticity and durability; and/or I have experience with matching seams and use of patterns; and/or I have made repairs to sheets, blankets, towels, hospital gowns, inmate clothing; and/or I have removed spots and stains. I have interpreted specifications, made repairs; and/or I have defined materials needed; and/or I have made acceptable substitutions; and/or I have used materials such as cloth to either manufacture or repair garments/clothing items. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).