Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes AND this experience is clearly outlined in my resume. No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have completed or will complete 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent) by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the time in grade requirements for this position because I have not completed or will not complete 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent) by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a non-competitive applicant eligible for re-promotion, reassignment or a change to lower grade to the GS-14 grade level. I am a competitive applicant and need to compete for the GS-14 grade level. IF YOU ARE ELIGIBLE FOR REASSIGNMENT, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION TO MERIT PROMOTION PROCEDURES, AND YOU MAY SKIP THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS. IF YOU MUST COMPETE FOR A PROMOTION, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT. YOU MUST COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Associate Wardens must monitor the performance of subordinates and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program objectives and existing lesson plan. I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate's job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring program. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have maintained access for dialogue with subordinates on subjects within a correctional frame of reference; and/or I have noted subordinates who volunteered for a committee within the institution and documented accomplishments. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have developed and taught the curriculum for a new training course that fulfilled an identified training need. I have developed and initiated an employee enhancement program that measured the performance success rate of individual employees; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an organization. None of the above. 5 Associate Wardens must supervise and monitor the performance of subordinates in order to maintain the orderly operation of the institution. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made required entries in subordinate's performance log on time in accordance with policy; and/or I have informed subordinates of strategic plan goals; and/or I have supervised and delegated tasks to subordinates. I have completed performance evaluations and indicated the subordinate's strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have reviewed subordinate supervisor's performance logs on their staff before issuance. I have met with subordinates throughout the institution and provided them with verbal feedback regarding their performance; and/or I have provided guidance on the agency/organization strategic plans to subordinates. I have developed and implemented a tracking system or other systematic method for evaluating performance that was adopted by management; and/or I have implemented progressive discipline methods or procedures for staff whose performance was marginal, such as counseling letters and performance improvement plans. I have created a system/program/process that was adopted and implemented by the agency to monitor or measure some aspect of the organization's/agency's progress. None of the above. 6 Associate Wardens must provide employees with the incentive or encouragement to perform at the highest level possible. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a performance improvement plan for a subordinate; and/or I have established a new incentive program which was approved by management and activated; and/or I have implemented a communication program, such as a social climate survey, that was used to evaluate and resolve organizational/agency issues. I have initiated a proactive disciplinary plan that made employees aware of federal/agency requirements and assisted them in avoiding actions that would require disciplinary action; and/or I have initiated and arranged community resources/programs used in the organization as an incentive to motivate employees. I have provided leadership to resolve a crisis situation (e.g., served as the senior management official during a crisis or major incident which was resolved); and/or I have utilized crisis intervention to resolve personal or job related problems/issues of subordinates. I have met with employees on a regular basis to discuss performance issues as they occur and have taken corrective action where warranted; and/or I have arranged a performance improvement plan for a subordinate which included follow-up to ensure compliance; and/or I have guided employees in completing their work and meeting guidelines. I have served as acting senior management official during a period in which no major problems/incidents occurred; and/or I have resolved employee complaint, handled disciplinary action, and followed protocol for Office of Investigations referral; and/or I have participated in an Associate Warden round table discussion to address and resolve issues brought forward by staff. I have assisted in resolving an employee performance issue; and/or I have forwarded employee complaint to proper authority to be resolved; and/or I have held quarterly discussions with employees to improve performance; and/or I have participated in the disciplinary process under the direction of a supervisor. None of the above. 7 Associate Wardens must have a comprehensive knowledge of procedures used to maintain and increase the security of a correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in mock exercises by carrying out assigned responsibilities; and/or I have read and reviewed emergency/security plans; and/or I have responded to an emergency situation; and/or I have served as duty officer. As the primary incident commander during an institution or environmental emergency, I have formulated a plan of action which successfully resolved the incident; and/or I have developed a mock exercise, and was responsible for evaluating the exercise and taking follow-up action. I have developed a cost effective system or physical plant plan that increased security and was adopted by the agency/organization; and/or I have redesigned the receiving discharge area, visiting room, or other area in preparation for remodeling to increase security, and presented the draft plan to department heads and executive staff who gave their final input and approval. I have participated on a committee to review a mock exercise and provided feedback to the committee regarding the exercise; and/or I have provided assistance in revising or modifying procedures which improved security at minimal cost to the institution; and/or I have provided assistance or acted in an advisory capacity in an emergency or threat scenario; and/or I have assisted in direction of a mock emergency using standard scenarios None of the above. 8 In a clear and concise manner, Associate Wardens must convey information to others within and outside of the organization regarding a variety of issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in monthly labor/management meetings to resolve issues in a partnership forum; and/or I have participated as a member on a task force to resolve issues at the institution level; and/or I have participated in an after-action committee, review team, or institution character profile team that focused on various issues. I have attended the annual strategic planning retreat and presented a session on current issues of inmate management; and/or I have worked with other department heads to resolve issues that have impacted operations; and/or I have presented information about the institution at a local civic organization meeting; and/or I have presented information during Annual Refresher Training. I have chaired various task forces, resolved critical issues and made recommendations for action; and/or I have developed and presented training for an organization/agency; and/or I have resolved volatile inmate situations and continuously monitored inmate morale/behavior. I have addressed and made a presentation to a contentious group to change attitudes, present new ideas, or resolve issues; and/or I have consulted and negotiated with union officials and labor organizations to resolve issues. I have provided information to a task force or other meeting as a resource person; and/or I have attended employee meetings as required by policy; and/or I have made routine presentations during Warden's staff meetings; and/or I have maintained verbal communication with staff and/or inmates during mainline. None of the above. 9 In a clear and concise manner, Associate Wardens must prepare policy statements, reports, and other correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed newsletter articles, routine reports, correspondence and memos for higher authority; and/or I have written memos for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates for clarity, grammar and content. I have written an article published in a corrections publication or reference journal; and/or I have developed national policy/institutional supplements that were adopted for use by the agency or institution; and/or as primary investigator, I have directed an investigation and prepared the final report. I have written articles for the institution or Central Office branch newsletter; and/or I have participated in group preparation of a report by authoring part of the report, and reviewing and editing other team members' submissions; and/or I have prepared a report of incident. None of the above. 10 Associate Wardens must assign responsibility, delegate authority, and provide direction in order to successfully manage the operations and activities of an institution. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and directed the operations of diverse functional departments; and/or in a supervisory or managerial position, I have provided direction and assistance to a variety of institutions; and/or I have directed completion of an institution's ACA accreditation; and/or I have chaired a task group which developed and implemented a change in mission for the institution. I have identified deficiencies in an inter-departmental program and subsequently directed subordinates to correct them with follow-up measures incorporated; and/or as head of a sub-committee, I have guided an institution through ACA accreditation or a mission change. I have ensured that subordinate supervisors prepared for a program review by delegating perpetual audit steps and following through to ensure completion; and/or I have directed subordinates to conduct research and made suggestions for program accomplishment. I have checked and verified that subordinates completed departmental tasks for ACA accreditation or a mission change; and/or I have held regular staff meetings to delegate tasks assigned by supervisor; and/or I have worked as a supervisor and guided the work of others. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? The performance evaluation used in scoring must be the most recent rating of record. If you don't have a current performance rating, you are presumed as "Achieved Results". Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Achieved Results or Presumptive Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information,creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process (i.e. performance, awards, etc.) may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 3 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 - 15 points over 15 points 3 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3.1 If you are not a current BOP employee, are you a DOJ Surplus or Displaced Employee? Yes, I am a DOJ Surplus or Displaced Employee AND I will provide all required documentation by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. No, I am not a DOJ Surplus or Displaced Employee. You will continue to receive consideration for this position until the next vacancy announcement open period, or until you are selected for this position or comparable position. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).