Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. 2 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must possess a certificate, issued by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, to operate one of more of the classifications of wastewater treatment plants. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess certificate, issued by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, to operate one of more of the classifications of wastewater treatment plants. No, I do not possess the selective placement factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit a copy of their certification. This documentation MUST be uploaded at time of application. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training to new workers; and/or I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have supervised journeyman workers in a specific line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments. I have led co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers; and/or I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to possible careers in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have completed the interview process for a position in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have submitted an application to a vacancy announcement for a position dealing directly with inmates at a correctional facility; and/or I have attended a law enforcement career fair; and/or I have completed a college course in corrections, law enforcement, or other related field. I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work. I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have obtained a degree in criminology or other related area; and/or I have worked in a correctional facility; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization. I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes, and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 5 Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must have the ability to assemble, install, and repair components, assemblies and systems of a wastewater disposal plant. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed a majority of the chemical and other tests related to Wastewater Disposal Compensation; and/or I have worked on a wide range of sewage disposal related equipment with assistance only on a few types or when encountering unusual problems. I have assembled and installed pumps, and other major items; and/or I have diagnosed and overhauled valves, pumps, conveyors and other equipment related to wastewater disposal plant operations. I have acquired the knowledge to run tests and work on sewage disposal equipment through classroom training or trade schools; and/or I have disassembled, cleaned, adjusted, and replaced defective parts in motors, pumps and other elements of the wastewater disposal system; and/or I have performed routine maintenance; painted water pumping equipment and pipes; and/or I have assisted higher graded operators in performing operational repairs. None of the above. 6 Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must have the ability to operate such equipment as pumps, conveyors, digesters, clarifiers and other equipment related to waste treatment operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recently acquired experience in an extensive waste treatment operation such as employed by a large city, municipality or industrial plant; and/or I am knowledgeable in waste treatment theory and have extensive practical experience in all phases of waste treatment operations; and/or I have taught apprentices how to report treatment plant equipment. I have supervised or performed the most common procedures in waste treatment with direct supervision; and/or I have performed preventive maintenance such as lubricating, cleaning, and painting or pumping equipment and valves. I have recently acquired ample experience in most phases of waste treatment operations and am familiar with the general theory behind such operations; and/or I have performed maintenance and repairs on machinery. None of the above. 7 Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must be knowledgeable of new and up-to-date practices in the wastewater disposal and waste treatment field, and have the ability to use trade theory in doing the more demanding or precise tasks or in designing new ways to do tasks that cannot be done by the equipment at hand or readily available. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised a modern sewage treatment municipal system or served as the equivalent of shift engineer in a city water system; and/or I have made adjustments by adding hydrated lime to cultivate anaerobic bacteria; and/or I have knowledge of secondary processes and equipment such as biological filters, sand filters, oxidation ponds, and aeration tanks. I have diagnosed installation and repair problems; and/or I have performed jobs common toa water treatment system; and/or I have maintained quality of potable water by the adjustment of chemical treatment; and/or I have added pre-determined chemical reagents to samples; and/or I have adjusted rate of flow and amount of chemicals to be added. I have determined the amount of chemicals to be added with supervision; and/or I have collected routine water samples; and/or I am knowledgeable of the location and purpose of equipment. None of the above. 8 Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must have the ability to use measuring instruments connected with performing chemical and other tests relating to wastewater treatment operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have read meters and gauges; and/or I have used primary treatment stage equipment such as septic, Imhoff and settling tanks. I have followed specific regulations concerning reading meters and gauges; and/or I have performed tests on water supply to ensure conformance with all EPA standards for a potable water supply; and/or I have a thorough knowledge of secondary processes and equipment such as bid filters, oil separators, holding tanks, and sand filters. I have collected water samples and conducted tests such as chlorine residual, biochemical oxygen demand, acidity or alkalinity, and total solids; and/or I have used dissolved oxygen meters, pH meters, water meters, mag meters, and turbidity meters. None of the above. 9 Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared reports according to state and federal guidelines; and/or I am knowledgeable of state and federal regulations regarding treatment plants. I have verified proper amounts and mixtures of chemicals which have been input into a computer; and/or I have completed tests in accordance with specific and easily understood instructions; and/or I have received simple assignments from a supervisor orally and in writing. I have taught others how to read meters and gauges; and/or I have made extensive repairs to machinery using technical manuals; and/or I have made independent judgments within the frameworks of established procedures. None of the above. 10 Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisors must maintain a safe working environment as well as appropriate speed and quality of work levels, safety training, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established safety procedures to be used in a municipal plant; and/or I have worked in small, cramped work areas; and/or I have been exposed to high levels of noise. I have ensured in-line water pressure didn’t exceed safety limits at terminal points in the systems; and/or I have used moderate physical effort to turn valves and controls; and/or I have worked outside for short periods of time subject to adverse weather conditions. I have had exposure to adverse weather conditions and noise, dirt, and fumes while working in this trade. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).