Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 GS-12: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-12: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your experience applying legislation, statutes, policies and/or regulations to Information Technology? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task I have performed this task with supervision (e.g., research assistant, intern) I have performed this task as part of a team (e.g., coauthor, team member) I have independently performed this task (e.g., sole author or team leader) 4 Which of the following software development life cycle technologies have you used to design applications? Answer to this question is required UML Modeling Use cases Database Modeling Automated Testing Stress Testing Requirements Gathering and Tracking Defects Tracking Configuration Management None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with the systems development life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, the systems development process I have knowledge of, or education in, the systems development process but no experience I have performed tasks as directed by the project lead on a systems development project I have lead a phase of a systems development project I have directed a systems development project through the full life cycle from inception to sustained production 6 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 7 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience using an automated testing tool to test applications or systems? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, automated testing I have knowledge of, or education in, automated testing but no experience I was responsible for executing automated test cases I designed and implemented automated test cases 8 Which of the following choices best reflects your experience in systems integration? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in an integration project I have functioned as a team member on an integration project I have led a team integrating department-wide systems/application functions I have performed as a technical architect for an integration project 9 Which of the following choices best reflects your knowledge of, and experience in Information Assurance standards and practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, Information Assurance standards and practices I have knowledge of, or education in, Information Assurance standards and practices but no experience I have knowledge of, and have worked with Information Assurance standards and practices I have been a member of a formal Information Assurance standards and practices team I have led Information Assurance teams and/or projects I am certified in Information Assurance standards and practices I have fully achieved certification and accreditation of a large complex system I have fully achieved certification and accreditation of a major enterprise-wide system 10 Which of the following certifications have you used (i.e., knowledge gained from the certification) to maintain IT security? Answer to this question is required CISSP CISM Auditor certification SANS GIAC MCSE - NT/00/03 MCP Security + A + Network + PMP - Project Management Professional None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience implementing IT security? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, IT security I have knowledge of, or education in, IT security but no experience I have assisted others in implementing IT security I have implemented IT security to train customers on IT security awareness I have implemented IT security to secure and validate the IT infrastructure I have implemented IT security to manage/train staff 12 Indicate all of the environments in which you have experience implementing IT security: Answer to this question is required In production environment In testing and lab environment For customers or helpdesk For instructional purposes None of the above 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents under direct supervision. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents independently. I have experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents and have written policy for this process. I have managed and supervised a team that worked on government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. 14 What is your level of experience serving as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR) for information technology contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no COR experience or training. I have received COR training and certification. I have been responsible for writing sole source justifications. I have been responsible for reviewing proposals open for bid. I have been responsible for reviewing deliverables to ensure contractual compliance. I have been responsible for resolving contractual discrepancies with the vendor. I have been responsible for certifying and approving invoices. 15 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of work experience in information technology acquisition management policies and procedures outside the federal government? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area I have education, training, or more than one year of on-the-job training in this area I have used my organization`s acquisition process I have participated in a complex acquisition (e.g., drafting a statement of work, reviewed proposals) I have led a complex acquisition I have developed acquisition policies and procedures 16 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with contract administration (i.e., developing statement of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; managing contractor project activities; monitor contract costs, scheduling, and performance)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with contract administration. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed contract administration duties on the job. I have performed contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 17 Which of the following choices best describes your experience in the data management arena? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in data management processes. I have functioned as a data steward. I have established naming conventions for an organization. I have implemented data management policies. I have established a full data management program for an organization. I have implemented processes and procedures in order to track and manage data or information. 18 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports or documents Federal Register notices Regulatory / Statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Software Agreements Hardware Agreements User guides OMB Exhibit 300 Submissions Program Regulations None of the above 19 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Subordinates Senior level officials Supervisor Team leaders Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Members of the public Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 20 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. Grade: 13 GS-13: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-13: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your experience applying legislation, statutes, policies and/or regulations to Information Technology? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task I have performed this task with supervision (e.g., research assistant, intern) I have performed this task as part of a team (e.g., coauthor, team member) I have independently performed this task (e.g., sole author or team leader) 4 Which of the following software development life cycle technologies have you used to design applications? Answer to this question is required UML Modeling Use cases Database Modeling Automated Testing Stress Testing Requirements Gathering and Tracking Defects Tracking Configuration Management None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with the systems development life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, the systems development process I have knowledge of, or education in, the systems development process but no experience I have performed tasks as directed by the project lead on a systems development project I have lead a phase of a systems development project I have directed a systems development project through the full life cycle from inception to sustained production 6 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 7 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience using an automated testing tool to test applications or systems? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, automated testing I have knowledge of, or education in, automated testing but no experience I was responsible for executing automated test cases I designed and implemented automated test cases 8 Which of the following choices best reflects your experience in systems integration? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in an integration project I have functioned as a team member on an integration project I have led a team integrating department-wide systems/application functions I have performed as a technical architect for an integration project 9 Which of the following choices best reflects your knowledge of, and experience in Information Assurance standards and practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, Information Assurance standards and practices I have knowledge of, or education in, Information Assurance standards and practices but no experience I have knowledge of, and have worked with Information Assurance standards and practices I have been a member of a formal Information Assurance standards and practices team I have led Information Assurance teams and/or projects I am certified in Information Assurance standards and practices I have fully achieved certification and accreditation of a large complex system I have fully achieved certification and accreditation of a major enterprise-wide system 10 Which of the following certifications have you used (i.e., knowledge gained from the certification) to maintain IT security? Answer to this question is required CISSP CISM Auditor certification SANS GIAC MCSE - NT/00/03 MCP Security + A + Network + PMP - Project Management Professional None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience implementing IT security? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, IT security I have knowledge of, or education in, IT security but no experience I have assisted others in implementing IT security I have implemented IT security to train customers on IT security awareness I have implemented IT security to secure and validate the IT infrastructure I have implemented IT security to manage/train staff 12 Indicate all of the environments in which you have experience implementing IT security: Answer to this question is required In production environment In testing and lab environment For customers or helpdesk For instructional purposes None of the above 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents under direct supervision. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents independently. I have experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents and have written policy for this process. I have managed and supervised a team that worked on government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. 14 What is your level of experience with project management? Answer to this question is required I have no coursework or practical experience in project management I have coursework in project management, but no practical experience I have been a member of a long-term project team I have had responsibility for managing one project of moderate length (i.e. 6 months or less) I have had responsibility for managing one long-term project (i.e., greater than one year) I have had responsibility for managing several long-term projects (i.e., greater than one year) 15 Which of the following choices best describes your experience developing implementation plans for long-term projects? Answer to this question is required I have no experience I have performed work in these areas, but my work was monitored I have performed work in these areas independently I have mentored others in these areas 16 Which of the following choices best describes your ability to lead a project with a group outside your immediate organizational unit? Answer to this question is required I have not been a project leader I was a lead on a project that only required working with others within my organizational unit I was a lead on a smaller, highly focused project that required working with representatives from different units outside my organizational unit I was a lead on a large, complex (multi-faceted) project that required working with many representatives from different units outside my organizational unit 17 What is your level of experience serving as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR) for information technology contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no COR experience or training. I have received COR training and certification. I have been responsible for writing sole source justifications. I have been responsible for reviewing proposals open for bid. I have been responsible for reviewing deliverables to ensure contractual compliance. I have been responsible for resolving contractual discrepancies with the vendor. I have been responsible for certifying and approving invoices. 18 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of work experience in information technology acquisition management policies and procedures outside the federal government? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area I have education, training, or more than one year of on-the-job training in this area I have used my organization`s acquisition process I have participated in a complex acquisition (e.g., drafting a statement of work, reviewed proposals) I have led a complex acquisition I have developed acquisition policies and procedures 19 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports or documents Federal Register notices Regulatory / Statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Software Agreements Hardware Agreements User guides OMB Exhibit 300 Submissions Program Regulations None of the above 20 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with contract administration (i.e., developing statement of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; managing contractor project activities; monitor contract costs, scheduling, and performance)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with contract administration. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed contract administration duties on the job. I have performed contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 21 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Subordinates Senior level officials Supervisor Team leaders Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Members of the public Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 22 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.