Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts and license for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education and license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-10 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Supervisory Clinical Nurse must be able to express ideas clearly and convey information concisely and effectively in oral form so that others understand what they are saying. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported medical or correctional issues to management; and/or I have given a presentation at a nursing conference; and/or I have taught a class during Annual Training; and/or I have explained performance deficiency issues to subordinates. I have directed nursing staff care delivery during medical emergencies, such as respiratory or cardiac arrest, trauma or suicidal attempts; and/or I have researched and presented case information to Director of Nursing (DON), Assistant Director of Nursing (ADON), physicians and other medical staff; and/or I have briefed executive staff about specific inmate medical issue(s); and/or I have verbally persuaded a potentially violent inmate to remain calm. I have provided information to staff regarding changes in patient treatment plan; and/or I have provided information to other health care providers during multi-discipline treatment meeting; and/or I have directed nursing staff on ways to present patient information to family. None of the above. 5 The Supervisory Clinical Nurse must be able to gather information, compile reports, write policies, and make recommendations based on their findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recorded nursing department critical incidents; and/or I have researched and prepared technical reports used by executive staff; and/or I have written a justification for additional nursing staff positions; and/or I have monitored and responded to nursing care delivery after official program review. I have prepared written guidance and instruction for nursing staff; and/or I have prepared written response to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have written an award recommendation for staff. I have assisted in writing nursing policies and procedures; and/or I have assisted in investigating and preparing for Response to Request for Administrative Remedy (BP-9); and/or I have assisted in preparing a response to a court. None of the above. 6 The Supervisory Clinical Nurse must be able to develop, change, interpret, translate, and implement policies and procedures governing the provisions of nursing care and services in a correctional setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed or implemented recommendations made by work group or committee; and/or I have ensured compliance with treatment plans; and/or I have interpreted patient care procedures. I have participated in a work group or committee in determining the implementation of new policies or procedures; and/or I have assisted in the development and carrying out the treatment plan that is congruent with correctional security needs of a high risk security inmate; and/or I have reviewed established work schedules and made scheduling adjustments. I have implemented a new policy or procedure; and/or I have developed treatment plans congruent with correctional security needs of a high risk security inmate; and/or I have developed a new alternate work schedule which complied with regulations and union guidelines. None of the above. 7 The Supervisory Clinical Nurse must have a generalized body of current nursing knowledge in areas such as medical, surgical, and psychiatric. He/she must also have knowledge principles and techniques necessary to provide appropriate assistance for the nursing staff in emergency situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prioritized life-saving interventions in a victim with traumatic injuries in multiple trauma cases; and/or I have directed care of injured individuals; and/or I have assessed patient condition and notified physician and other medical specialists; and/or I have managed complex emergency births; and/or I have treated most seriously injured such as gunshot wounds, stab victims; and/or I have coordinated emergency care efforts with correctional services; and/or I have managed/directed nursing staff treating other patients throughout emergency. I have treated heat stroke victims; and/or I have provided first aid to fracture victims until transported/physician arrived; and/or I have treated heat related disorders; and/or I have performed uncomplicated births; and/or I have assessed patient condition and made recommendations; and/or I have obtained appropriate assistance in the event of an emergency. I have performed triage; and/or I have directed less experienced staff to assume skill-appropriate roles in a code scenario; and/or I have advised other health care professionals in prioritization of emergency medical situations; and/or I have assessed patient conditions and notified physicians to avoid further medical complications. None of the above. 8 The Supervisory Clinical Nurse must have the knowledge of supervisory theories and techniques required to facilitate the efficient operation of nursing department functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have checked work in progress on a regular basis to ensure that deadlines are met; and/or I have evaluated and documented special competencies of employees in area of responsibility; and/or I have reviewed and monitored programs to make changes or improvements as needed. I have developed a comprehensive orientation program for new staff; and/or I have provided guidance to employees, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have motivated employees to comply and follow established policies and guidelines. I have appropriately delegated work to staff; and/or I have corrected audit deviations; and/or I have provided individual staff education for a specific nursing skill or task. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).