Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-4 or equivalent and above): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include technical work in: drafting, surveying construction estimating, physical science, mathematics, aerospace, architecture, chemicals, electrical or mechanical systems, mining, petroleum, or nuclear systems. Experience in a trade or craft may be credited as specialized experience when the work provided intensive knowledge of engineering principles, techniques, methods, and precedents. Examples are trade positions with substantial developmental, test, or design responsibilities such as: Planner and estimator who analyzed designs for production purposes. Instrument maker or model maker who performed design or development work on devices fabricated. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the next lowest grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Engineering Technician must be knowledgeable of elements and methods of various construction and utility disciplines, construction drawings, and specification writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted in the absence of the trades supervisor; and/or I have coordinated work for multiple trades at several job sites; and/or I have worked in an industry-related supervisory position where you were exposed to construction related work such as, lumber yard supervisor, concrete plant supervisor, architectural firm/group office manager. I have interpreted regulations as written; and/or I have monitored progress of construction/renovation; and/or I have selected appropriate equipment for work site in order to accomplish construction tasks. I have assisted in the preparation of formulation of shop-drawings; and/or I have determined appropriate equipment needed to accomplish renovation/construction tasks; and/or I have determined positive/negative (status) progress of construction renovations. None of the above. 4 The Engineering Technician must be able to work up sketches and drawings of existing structures, and drafts of proposed projects as a basis for production of finished drawings.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted computer drawings and applications; and/or I have supervised inmates in use of stand-alone drafting system; and/or I have instructed inmates in use of stand-alone Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system; and/or I have, during trips to construction sites, as assigned, photographed construction site; and/or I have assisted in preparing designs and specifications for projects. I have worked with computer drafting and applications; and/or I have, with supervision, produced specifications and simple drawings; and/or I possess basic knowledge of principles of drafting. I have extracted information from drawings and reconstructed measurements and designs in order to utilize space most effectively and submitted for review; and/or I have prepared detailed computer drafting and applications and submitted for review; and/or I have drafted and presented plans for institution renovation. None of the above. 5 The Engineering Technician must be proficient in working with computer programs and computerized maintenance software, specifically, Computerized Maintenance Management Software (CMMS), which is a program used agency-wide that handles minor work requests processed through the facility office.&nbsp; He/she must be able to organize and evaluate a variety of documents for the various construction/renovation projects.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed data into specific database; and/or I have distributed reports using agency email system; and/or I have edited letters or memoranda using word processing software; and/or I have entered data onto a spreadsheet using and existing software program; and/or I have used a digital camera for security documentation; and/or I have drafted specifications and estimates; and/or I have used Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system. I have edited a report using word processing software; and/or I have instructed others in the use of and automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software and other computer programs; and/or I have developed spreadsheets using Microsoft Software programs; and/or I have produced professional quality draft specifications and estimates using a nationally recognized estimator tool; and/or I have, after completion of drawings on automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software, plotted to obtain hard copy; and/or I have formulated construction documents from shop drawings; and/or I have set/used appropriate configuration of plotter to obtain proper/desired results using the Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system; and/or I have utilized Bureau Life Cycle Cost Analyst Software. I have created basic tables using a computer program; and/or I have collected required data from the computer according to guidelines/procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have operated an automated maintenance program, such as Total Maintenance System (TMS); and/or I have developed presentations and graphics using software such as Microsoft Access and/or Quattro Pro. None of the above. 6 The Engineering Technician must be able to apply engineering fundamentals and applications.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have appropriately applied National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines 101 life Safety Codes as it pertains to building construction; and/or I have utilized project management principles as it relates to engineering and architectural functions; and/or I have documented daily activities on a daily construction log. I have performed/supervised residential construction or renovation work as a private general contractor; and/or I have inspected work for compliance with building codes and other applicable regulations; and/or I have assisted in managing/coordinating budgetary requirements. I have coordinated work of other trade foremen; and/or I have led/assisted others in interpretation and application of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines 101 life Safety Codes as it pertains to building construction; and/or I have utilized practical experience in project management as it relates to engineering and architectural fundamentals; and/or I have documented construction/utility issues related to a specific construction phase and kept supervisor notified. None of the above. 7 The Engineering Technician must interact with various individuals, such as consultants, contractors, and officials in addition to co-workers and supervisors.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given a project update during an office meeting; and/or I have interacted with a lower-level manager while involved in a project; and/or I have conveyed the results of a design/contract documents review. I have observed an inspection of a phase of construction project and communicated results with project team and/or supervisor; and/or I have communicated construction security issues to the supervisor when needed; and/or I have contacted vendors for pricing information; and/or I have placed government purchase card orders via telephone. I have answered administrative or technical questions from management; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to assist in completing projects in a timely manner; and/or I have coordinated efforts with internal and external offices to complete assignments; and/or I have assisted in resolving minor complaints impacting work area. None of the above. 8 The Engineering Technician must be able to conduct cost estimates in order to properly monitor costs incurred during a construction project.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted vendors for detailed pricing information; and/or I have accessed the internet to obtain pricing information; and/or I have researched Robert Snow Means (RSMeans) for current building construction information. I have utilized square footage take offs for cost estimating; and/or I have implemented a working familiarity with cost estimating manuals; and/or I have implemented basic cost estimate methodology. I have interpreted drawings/specifications; and/or I have reviewed and estimated costs for single phase of construction project/trade; and/or I have reviewed costs for previous similar project. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-4 or equivalent and above): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include technical work in: drafting, surveying construction estimating, physical science, mathematics, aerospace, architecture, chemicals, electrical or mechanical systems, mining, petroleum, or nuclear systems. Experience in a trade or craft may be credited as specialized experience when the work provided intensive knowledge of engineering principles, techniques, methods, and precedents. Examples are trade positions with substantial developmental, test, or design responsibilities such as: Planner and estimator who analyzed designs for production purposes. Instrument maker or model maker who performed design or development work on devices fabricated. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the next lowest grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Engineering Technician must be knowledgeable of elements and methods of various construction and utility disciplines, construction drawings, and specification writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established lines of grades of buildings and utility lines; and/or I have monitored and reported progress of construction/renovation; and/or I have advised institutions/field locations as to the equipment/materials that would be necessary to accomplish tasks. I have interpreted regulations as written; and/or I have monitored progress of construction/renovation; and/or I have selected appropriate equipment for work site in order to accomplish construction tasks. I have assisted in the preparation of formulation of shop-drawings; and/or I have determined appropriate equipment needed to accomplish renovation/construction tasks; and/or I have determined positive/negative (status) progress of construction renovations. None of the above. 4 The Engineering Technician must be able to work up sketches and drawings of existing structures, and drafts of proposed projects as a basis for production of finished drawings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted computer drawings and applications; and/or I have supervised inmates in use of stand-alone drafting system; and/or I have instructed inmates in use of stand-alone Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system; and/or I have during trips to construction sites, as assigned, photographed construction site; and/or I have assisted in preparing designs and specifications for projects. I have extracted information from drawings and reconstructed measurements and designs in order to utilize space most effectively and submitted for review; and/or I have prepared detailed computer drafting and applications and submitted for review; and/or I have drafted and presented plans for institution renovation. I have researched National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines, Building Codes, and other sources of information and applied those findings to evaluate possible deficiencies; and/or I have recommended changes to supervisor to overcome any deficiencies; and/or I have utilized experience in computer aided drafting and applications for the preparation of designs and specifications for projects. None of the above. 5 The Engineering Technician must be proficient in working with computer programs and computerized maintenance software, specifically, Computerized Maintenance Management Software (CMMS), which is a program used agency-wide that manages minor work requests processed through the facility office. He/she must be able to organize and evaluate a variety of documents for the various construction/renovation projects. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed data into specific database; and/or I have distributed reports using agency email system; and/or I have edited letters or memoranda using word processing software; and/or I have entered data onto a spreadsheet using and existing software program; and/or I have used a digital camera for security documentation; and/or I have drafted specifications and estimates; and/or I have used Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system. I have edited a report using word processing software; and/or I have instructed others in the use of and automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software and other computer programs; and/or I have developed spreadsheets using Microsoft Software programs; and/or I have produced professional quality draft specifications and estimates using a nationally recognized estimator tool; and/or I have, after completion of drawings on automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software, plotted to obtain hard copy; and/or I have formulated construction documents from shop drawings; and/or I have set/used appropriate configuration of plotter to obtain proper/desired results using the Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system; and/or I have utilized Bureau Life Cycle Cost Analyst Software. I have utilized the automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software, including use of digitizer, mouse, and plotters; and/or I have utilized complex computer programs and automated maintenance software; and/or I have reviewed, evaluated and presented construction documents and project specifications for approval by supervisors or approving officials; and/or I have written specifications and estimates using a nationally recognized estimator tool; and/or I have regularly produced construction drawings from shop drawings in the use of a computerized automated drawing system. None of the above. 6 The Engineering Technician must be able to apply engineering fundamentals and applications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have appropriately applied National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines 101 life Safety Codes as it pertains to building construction; and/or I have utilized project management principles as it relates to engineering and architectural functions; and/or I have documented daily activities on a daily construction log. I have coordinated work of other trade foremen; and/or I have led/assisted others in interpretation and application of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines 101 life Safety Codes as it pertains to building construction; and/or I have utilized practical experience in project management as it relates to engineering and architectural fundamentals; and/or I have documented construction/utility issues related to a specific construction phase and kept supervisor notified. I have worked in a specialized commercial building or project management; and/or I have taught classes in Life Safety Codes and assisted others in interpretation; and/or I have researched seismic, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), life safety and other local, state and federal codes in relation to construction conditions; and/or I have managed project relating to engineering and architectural fundamentals; and/or I have interpreted and applied project management fundamentals. None of the above. 7 The Engineering Technician must interact with various individuals, such as consultants, contractors, and officials in addition to co-workers and supervisors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given a project update during an office meeting; and/or I have interacted with a lower-level manager while involved in a project; and/or I have conveyed the results of a design/contract documents review. I have observed an inspection of a phase of construction project and communicated results with project team and/or supervisor; and/or I have communicated construction security issues to the supervisor when needed; and/or I have contacted vendors for pricing information; and/or I have placed government purchase card orders via telephone. I have interacted with contractors during an on-site project visit; and/or I have interacted with a senior manager while involved in a project; and/or I have presented information during a construction conference; and/or I have made recommendations in the selection process of consultants, contract managers, firms, and construction contractors for a project. None of the above. 8 The Engineering Technician must be able to conduct cost estimates in order to properly monitor costs incurred during a construction project. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized square footage take-offs for cost estimating; and/or I have implemented a working familiarity with cost estimating manuals; and/or I have implemented basic cost estimate methodology. I have contacted vendors for detailed pricing information; and/or I have accessed the internet to obtain pricing information; and/or I have researched Robert Snow Means (RSMeans) for current building construction information. I have performed work which included estimating operations; and/or I have performed methods involved and the time required to complete each phase of specific project; and/or I have monitored various types and capacities of required equipment, cost of operation, maintenance, material types, quantities, tax, and other costs. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).