Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform administrative management functions.** Performed a variety of administrative management functions in order to maximize achievement of the goals and objectives of an organization. Provided advice, guidance, and administrative direction to employees, supervisors and managers in the following areas: 1) administrative policies and procedures; 2) procurement/contract activities; 3) human resources systems and other matters; 4), travel requests, vouchers and other travel related matters; 5) work schedules, leave and time and attendance matters; 6) budget/finance (e.g., budget planning and justifications) and 7) maintained digital and physical records. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above administrative management functions for an organization. Performed SIX (6) of the above administrative management functions for an organization Performed FIVE (5) of the above administrative management functions for an organization. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to plan, organize and execute work.** Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) working collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate administrative activities of an office; 2) setting priorities, determining long term vs. short-term priorities; 3) negotiating deadlines and competing priorities; 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints; 5) identifying work components; 6) identifying resources required; and 7) setting deadlines, milestones and areas of responsibility. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing ALL of the above. Planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing tasks 1) through 6) listed above. Under general supervision, completed work assignments planned by supervisors, including performing tasks 1) through 4) listed above, met critical deadlines, and accomplished work. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to utilize computer technology.** Supported administrative work of an organization by utilizing a variety of software applications to accomplish work assignments including the following:1) e-mail and electronic calendar; 2) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint); 3) word processing (e.g., MS Word, CCM); 4) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 5) database management (e.g., Access, FAME); 6) financial management systems (e.g., Momentum); 7) personnel/payroll data systems (e.g., GovTA, NFC, EmpowHR, eManagement); and 8) office equipment (e.g., digital photocopy machine, scanner and fax machine). Answer to this question is required Routinely utilized ALL of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. Routinely utilized SEVEN (7) of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. Routinely utilized SIX (6) of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Composed, edited and wrote clear, concise, and accurate work products using standard rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation. These documents include: 1) travel vouchers, 2) purchasing reports, 3) performance and award documentation, 4) standard operating procedures, and 5) e-mails to provide guidance and instructions. Answer to this question is required Wrote and edited ALL of the above documents to support the work of an organization. Wrote and edited FOUR (4) of the above documents to support the work of an organization Wrote and edited THREE (3) of the above documents to support the work of an organization. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Knowledge of budget, financial, and procurement administrative practices and procedures. Applied knowledge of budget, financial, and procurement practices and procedures: 1) provided liaison services to support administration of a budget involving program and administrative expenses, 2) reviewed and tracked budget to monitor balances, 3) reviewed financial reports, resolved discrepancies with appropriate program office, 4) ensured expenditures were properly authorized and documented, and 5) used analytical techniques to support administrative functions. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, REGULARLY and INDEPENDENTLY performed ALL of the administrative activities above. As a primary job responsibility, REGULARLY performed Four (4) or Five (5) of the administrative activities above. As a primary job responsibility, performed Three (3) of the administrative activities above. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to Serve as a Liaison. The ability to serve as a liaison for an office/agency and with external organizations. This includes maintaining contact with staff and managers at all levels of the organization to facilitate the coordination of administrative tasks and serving as a contact person for customer problems, questions or concerns. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts with managers, supervisors, staff, clients and others inside and outside the organization to further the organizational goals and to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Maintained cooperative relationships in difficult or conflicted situations. Demonstrated the ability to communicate complex or sensitive, confidential and/or controversial concepts. Played a key role in discussions, concerning program planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with contacts internal and external to the organization or office to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Demonstrated the ability to communicate business concepts for an organization to individuals with similar views and goals. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with contacts internal to the organization or office to ensure administrative and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Demonstrated the ability to communicate business concepts for an organization to individuals with similar views and goals. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues. None of the Above 13 In the box below, please describe how your education, experience and/or training demonstrate your knowledge of librarianship and information science, the use of emerging technologies, and your participation in teamwork. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).