Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Supervised a diverse workforce. Demonstrated proficiency in the following competencies: Planned or adjusted work by identifying requirements, staff, time and resources to accomplish goals; Solved problems by anticipating and analyzing facts to reach a conclusion; Enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, productivity and holding staff accountable; Ensured quality control by monitoring integrity of work performed; Exhibited fair treatment of others by being aware of, responding to, and considering the needs and capabilities of staff and handling issues with tact; Demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity and considering others ideas; Implemented improvement of current processes and work quality through innovation and continuous development; Motivated and gave direction with constructive feedback and coaching; and Created a work environment that fosters creativity and integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing EIGHT (8) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing at least SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of contract administration principles and practices to monitor contractor performance; ensure compliance with contract terms; resolve issues; and perform contract closeouts.** Performed the following contact administration activities: 1) monitoring a variety of contracts; 2) monitoring vendor service delivery through direct observation, communications and the review of deliverables in accord with contract terms and conditions; 3) participating in post-award meetings to review contract milestones, responsibilities, and status; 4) providing appropriate documentation to support contract modifications or adjustments; 5) resolving contract issues with vendors; 6) reviewing and authorizing payment of invoices; and 7) closing out contracts. Answer to this question is required Served as a contracting officer’s representative. Performed contract administration activities for agency or organization-wide procurements related to the significant acquisition of goods and services including performing ALL of the above. Activities included selection involving the tradeoff among non-price factors and monitoring included fixed price contracts and other contract types including cost-plus-fix-fee and cost-plus-award-fee with moderate to high dollar values, and multi-year durations. As needed, made decisions or recommendations significantly changing, interpreting, or developing new contract administration methods for procurements. Served as a contracting officer’s representative. Performed contract administration activities for agency or organization-wide procurements related to the significant acquisition of goods and services including performing ALL of the above contract administration activities. Activities included selection involving the tradeoff among non-price factors and monitoring included fixed price contracts and other contract types including cost-plus-fix-fee and cost-plus-award-fee with moderate to high dollar values, and multi-year durations. Served as a contracting officer’s representative. Performed contract administration activities for procurements related to the significant acquisition of goods and services including performing ALL of the above contract administration activities. Activities included selection involving the tradeoff among non-price factors and monitoring included fixed price contracts and other contract types including cost-plus-fix-fee and cost-plus-award-fee with moderate to high dollar values, and multi-year durations. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to perform vendor management and acquisition planning activities. Performed the following vendor management and acquisition planning activities: 1) provided planning for acquisitions of low to moderate complexity; 2) collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to identify and capture acquisitions and vendor-related requirements; 3) supported contracting officer in conducting negotiations; 4) inspected and accepted or rejected deliverables; 5) monitored services for conformance with contract terms and conditions; 6) ensured performance management reporting contract terms are fulfilled by vendors; 7) submitted contractor performance evaluations; 8) supported development and execution of risk management strategies; and 9) authorized payment to vendors consistent with contract terms. Answer to this question is required Performed a wide range of vendor management and acquisition planning activities including AT LEAST EIGHT (8) of the above that includes 1), 2), 3), 6) and 9). Performed a range of vendor management and acquisition planning activities including SEVEN (7) of the above that includes 1), 2), 3), 6) and 9). Performed a range of vendor management and acquisition planning activities including SIX (6) of the above that includes 1), 2), 3), 6) and 9). None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to research, analyze and interpret data related to issues or problems with the acquisition of goods and services. Researched, evaluated and interpreted data related to issues or problems with the acquisition of goods and services. Answer to this question is required Took a lead role in researching, evaluating and interpreting data related to complex issues or problems with the acquisition of goods and services. Conducted market research, evaluated and implemented new approaches to streamline operations for procurements including methods and techniques to increase efficiency of operations such as purchase options, completion of cost analysis, and solicitation of bids. Supported acquisition and vendor portfolio reporting and analysis, including preparing reports, reviewing acquisitions and vendor portfolio performance metrics, and formulating recommendations based on overall acquisitions and vendor portfolio performance. Researched, evaluated and interpreted data related to issues or problems with the acquisition of goods and services. Conducted market research, evaluated and implemented new approaches to streamline operations for procurements including methods and techniques to increase efficiency of operations such as purchase options, completion of cost analysis, and solicitation of bids. Supported acquisition and vendor portfolio reporting and analysis, including preparing reports, reviewing acquisitions and vendor portfolio performance metrics, and formulating recommendations based on overall acquisitions and vendor portfolio performance. Researched, evaluated and interpreted data related to issues or problems with the acquisition of goods and services. Supported acquisition and vendor portfolio reporting and analysis, including conducting market research, preparing reports, reviewing acquisitions and vendor portfolio performance metrics, and formulating recommendations based on acquisitions and vendor portfolio performance. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products related to supervisory responsibilities and purchasing/ acquisition duties including: 1) contracts, including statements of work; 2) contract modification documentation; 3) contractor performance evaluations; 4) market research using historical information, web-based research and industry contacts for acquisition planning; 5) acquisition and vendor portfolio reports; 6) analytic reports or studies related to acquisitions; 7)estimates of contract pricing using historical contract data; and 8) processes and procedures related to streamlining operations for procurements. Answer to this question is required As the primary author prepared documents of a complex or sensitive nature including ALL of the above. As the primary author prepared documents of a complex or sensitive nature including SIX or SEVEN of the above, including 1) and 2). At the primary author prepared documents of a complex or sensitive nature including FIVE of the above, including 1) and 2). None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).