Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 [62867] Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions. You must provide supporting documentation. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college with at least one program accredited by ABET; or which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials (stress-strain relationships), fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), or any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam or required written test for professional registration administered by Boards of Engineering Examiners in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined are equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, including courses specified in response Choice 1. I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in engineering technology or another appropriate field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I have not received a qualifying bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college as specified in Choice 1, but I am currently enrolled in and will be completing the final courses necessary to earn my degree or certificate within 6 months of the closing of this announcement. I have uploaded transcripts with my application for verification of eligibility. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [62179] Do you possess a Bachelor&rsquo;s degree of higher from an accredited college or university in Marine or Mechanical Engineering or a related field, including but not limited to naval architecture, naval engineering, electrical engineering or nuclear engineering?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [62180] Do you possess at least 1 academic year (5 years for Associate Professor) full time or equivalent experience teaching at a college or university in Marine or Mechanical Engineering or a related field?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 5 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 9 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 10.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 10.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 10.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).