Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled. OR B. Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s). Supervising or administering a training program. Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results. Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 1. &nbsp; Applicant must possess and maintain a current certificate from one of the following recognized certifying agencies as an advanced-to-expert level dog trainer with expertise in animal behavior: A. IAABC-CDBC - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Certified Dog Behavior Consultant OR B. NADOI - National Association of Dog Obedience Instructors OR C. IACP-PDTI - International Association of Canine Professionals- Professional Dog Trainer Instructor OR D. CAAB - Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist OR E. DACVB - Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists OR F. PCBC-A - Professional Canine Behavior Consultant (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR G. Certification as CBCC-KA-Certified Behavior Consultant Canine-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) AND a. CPDT-KA - Certified Professional Dog Trainer-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) OR b. IAABC-ADT - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Accredited Dog Trainer OR c. CPT-A - Canine Personal Trainer (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR d. IACP-CDTA - International Association of Canine Professionals Certified Dog Trainer Advanced) AND 2. Applicant must have one (1) year teaching experience AND 3. Applicant must also have two (2) years of work experience as a lead dog trainer. 3 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this ability in their resume to be found qualified and/or upload supporting documentation at the time of application. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to converse effectively and speak clearly and concisely with individuals inside the agency and outside. He/she must interact with Executive Staff, Central Office and regional staff, education administrators, teachers, a varying inmate/student population, contractors, volunteers, institution staff, and other outside individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted tutor training sessions; and/or I have given presentation to a new staff member; and/or I have counseled an inmate/student who requested educational assistance; and/or I have conducted telephonic vouchering of potential contractor or volunteer. I have presented overview of program area; and/or I have spoken with individuals in a community service group; and/or I have spoken with members from a citizen volunteer group; and/or I have discussed students’ progress with the student. I have presented Admission and Orientation (A&O) to groups of new inmates/students; and/or I have provided guidance to students on task accomplishments; and/or I have addressed outside organizations in an effort to enhance classroom instruction; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution. None of the above. 5 The Vocational Training Instructor is required to possess a thorough knowledge of the various philosophies and methods of teaching and be able to use this knowledge to motivate and educate inmates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified/adapted curriculum to meet multiple learning styles; and/or I have demonstrated teaching techniques by using hands-on applications; and/or I have supervised computerized curriculum labs or other independent study curricula, (i.e., study guides, units, testing, etc.) I have given presentations without demonstration; and/or I have provided instruction from standardized textbooks; and/or I have lectured from lessons provided by commercial curricula or substitute teacher lesson plans. I have written supplemental material in subject matter area in addition to commercially available material; and/or I have assisted in developing teacher manual; and/or I have developed curriculum to meet multiple learning styles; and/or I have used multi-media technology for classroom instruction (i.e., DVDs, CDs, online learning, blackboard). None of the above. 6 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to develop a curriculum design and record-keeping system to organize and track student progress. He/she must be able to make modifications in curriculum materials and techniques as needed by students.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed specific lesson plan for student’s areas of interest; and/or I have utilized commercially available course curriculum with modifications; and/or I have utilized individual self-paced instruction materials. I have assisted in writing manual or supplemental teaching materials; and/or I have assisted in writing specific module/unit within a textbook; and/or I have assisted in developing course curriculum in similar areas. I have written course units or study guides; and/or I have developed curriculum model or performance objectives; and/or I have developed individualized instructional programs for own use in the education profession. None of the above. 7 The Vocational Training Instructor in a correctional setting provides instruction to a variety of students with varying needs and backgrounds.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed juveniles in a juvenile detention-type facility from varying economic levels and cultures; and/or I have selected and used available curriculum and supplemental activities to meet various student needs or backgrounds; and/or I have used curriculum materials developed by others; and/or I have identified assessment tools/criteria for student selection into the occupational program. I have conducted a training class unique for correctional staff; and/or I have assisted with the selection of curriculum, or modified existing curriculum objectives, to meet varying student needs or backgrounds; and/or I have addressed different perspectives of students through communication techniques which were sensitive to those differences; and/or I have identified and intervened if (when) cultural or other differences caused conflict in the classroom; and/or I have administered assessment tools to determine entry level skills. I have instructed adult inmates in a more conventional (basic) correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in the development of curriculum and supplemental activities to meet varying student needs or backgrounds; and/or I have assisted with the development of communication and motivational techniques to encourage students with different needs or backgrounds; and/or I have assisted in the selection of materials; and/or I have selected assessment tools to determine entry level skills. None of the above. 8 The Vocational Training Instructor must have a good knowledge of the trade industry standards, methodologies, and techniques for teaching their respective trade.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have demonstrated extensive work experience in trade; and/or I have assisted with teaching trade in small groups such as mini-seminars; and/or I have participated (practiced) in voluntary community service projects which utilized trade-related skills (i.e., building/constructing homes for individuals without homes). I have taught professional classes related to specialty trade area; and/or I have conducted one-on-one, on-the-job (OJT) training at work site; and/or I have tutored entry level trade students (i.e., high school, community seminars or adult/juvenile correctional facilities). I have written curriculum unit of study within trade specialty area; and/or I have taught team with another trade professional; and/or I have adapted commercially available curriculum and shared locally. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled. OR B. Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s). Supervising or administering a training program. Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results. Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 1.&nbsp; Applicant must possess and maintain a current certificate from one of the following recognized certifying agencies as an advanced-to-expert level dog trainer with expertise in animal behavior: A.&nbsp; IAABC-CDBC - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Certified Dog Behavior Consultant OR B.&nbsp;&nbsp; NADOI - National Association of Dog Obedience Instructors OR C.&nbsp; IACP-PDTI - International Association of Canine Professionals- Professional Dog Trainer Instructor OR D.&nbsp; CAAB - Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist OR E.&nbsp;&nbsp; DACVB - Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists OR F.&nbsp;&nbsp; PCBC-A - Professional Canine Behavior Consultant (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR G.&nbsp;&nbsp; Certification as CBCC-KA-Certified Behavior Consultant Canine-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) AND a. CPDT-KA - Certified Professional Dog Trainer-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) OR b. IAABC-ADT - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Accredited Dog Trainer OR c. CPT-A - Canine Personal Trainer (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR d. IACP-CDTA - International Association of Canine Professionals Certified Dog Trainer Advanced) AND 2.&nbsp;&nbsp; Applicant must have one (1) year teaching experience AND 3.&nbsp;&nbsp; Applicant must also have three (3) years of work experience as a lead dog trainer. 3 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this ability in their resume to be found qualified and/or upload supporting documentation at the time of application. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to converse effectively and speak clearly and concisely with individuals inside the agency and outside. He/she must interact with Executive Staff, Central Office and regional staff, education administrators, teachers, a varying inmate/student population, contractors, volunteers, institution staff, and other outside individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented Admission and Orientation (A&O) to groups of new inmates/students; and/or I have provided guidance to students on task accomplishments; and/or I have addressed outside organizations in an effort to enhance classroom instruction; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution. I have presented overview of program area; and/or I have spoken with individuals in a community service group; and/or I have spoken with members from a citizen volunteer group; and/or I have discussed students’ progress with the student. I have participated on a facility tour; and/or I have made formal presentation at a trade show or other outside professional group; and/or I have successfully calmed hostile inmates/students; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work-related issues. None of the above. 5 The Vocational Training Instructor is required to possess a thorough knowledge of the various philosophies and methods of teaching and be able to use this knowledge to motivate and educate inmates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified/adapted curriculum to meet multiple learning styles; and/or I have demonstrated teaching techniques by using hands-on applications; and/or I have supervised computerized curriculum labs or other independent study curricula (i.e., study guides, units, testing, etc.). I have used Corel/Micro-soft power point-type applications in instructional presentations; and/or I have created a teaching manual to demonstrate teaching techniques; and/or I have developed teaching theories/techniques within subject matter that exceeded industry standards (i.e., developed specific product or theories). I have written supplemental material in subject matter area in addition to commercially available material; and/or I have assisted in developing teacher manual; and/or I have developed curriculum to meet multiple learning styles; and/or I have used multi-media technology for classroom instruction (i.e., DVDs, CDs, online learning, blackboard). None of the above. 6 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to develop a curriculum design and record-keeping system to organize and track student progress. He/she must be able to make modifications in curriculum materials and techniques as needed by students.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in writing manual or supplemental teaching materials; and/or I have assisted in writing specific module/unit within a textbook; and/or I have assisted in developing course curriculum in similar areas. I have written specific units in a textbook study guide; and/or I have developed teaching curriculum for post-secondary institution; and/or I have developed curriculum shared and used by others; and/or I have developed individualized instructional programs used by others. I have written course units or study guide; and/or I have developed curriculum model or performance objective; and/or I have developed individualized instructional programs for own use in the education profession. None of the above. 7 The Vocational Training Instructor in a correctional setting provides instruction to a variety of students with varying needs and backgrounds.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed juveniles in a juvenile detention-type facility from varying economic levels and cultures; and/or I have selected and used available curriculum and supplemental activities to meet various student needs or backgrounds; and/or I have used curriculum materials developed by others; and/or I have identified assessment tools/criteria for student selection into the occupational program. I have instructed adult basic education classes for a (unique) all high maximum security population of inmates; and/or I have developed curriculum and supplemental activities to integrate different content and perspectives; and/or I have independently developed curriculum and supplemental activities to meet different student needs or backgrounds; and/or I have developed communication and motivational techniques to encourage students with different needs or backgrounds; and/or I have selected all materials and identified a wide variety of learning strategies for lessons; and/or I have developed assessment tools to determine entry level skills. I have instructed adult inmates in a more conventional (basic) correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in the development of curriculum and supplemental activities to meet varying student needs or backgrounds; and/or I have assisted with the development of communication and motivational techniques to encourage students with different needs or backgrounds; and/or I have assisted in the selection of materials; and/or I have selected assessment tools to determine entry level skills. None of the above. 8 The Vocational Training Instructor must have a good knowledge of the trade industry standards, methodologies, and techniques for teaching their respective trade.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught professional classes related to specialty trade area; and/or I have conducted one-on-one, on-the-job (OJT) training at work site; and/or I have tutored entry level trade students (i.e., high school, community seminars or adult/juvenile correctional facilities). I have written curriculum unit of study within trade specialty area; and/or I have taught team with another trade professional; and/or I have adapted commercially available curriculum and shared locally. I have written an entire curriculum and shared with other trade professionals; and/or I have written textbook/procedural manual and shared with other professionals; and/or I have taught trade to other professionals in a setting (i.e., community college, trade show, agricultural extension, seminars, vocational trade school). None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).