Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level as described in the statement below. I have a combination of education and experience None of the above 2 Which activities have you performed to organize the workflow of an office? Answer to this question is required Scheduled conference rooms Maintained an automated calendar Made travel arrangements Processed training requests Set up meetings Ordered supplies Maintained office supplies Set up and maintained office files Routed mail Tracked expenses for budget Processed timesheets None of the Above 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Streamlined maintenance operations. Reviewed and analyzed increasing and long-term management issues. Gathered data and provided periodic and special management information reports. Developed plans and implemented results. Reconciled and manipulated data from various internal and external software systems. Coordinated and facilitated solutions to unprecedented, non-standard issues and problems. None of the above. 4 From the list below, identify the functions you have routinely performed using automated information systems. Answer to this question is required Establish and maintain databases Input and retrieve data Prepare charts, graphs and/or spreadsheets Prepare correspondence Prepare reports Prepare slides for presentations Receive and respond to e-mails Schedule and coordinate appointments and/or meetings using electronic calendars Track the status of actions and requests None of the above 5 What tasks have you performed to measure the effectiveness and productivity of various administrative support activities? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Gathered information to identify and analyze issues. Developed recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work. Applied originality in refining existing work methods and techniques to analyze specific issues and resolve problems. Developed detailed procedures and guidelines to supplement established administrative regulations and program guidelines. Provided information and advice to managers on administrative operations and organizational and program-related issues and concerns. None of the above. 6 Select the types of office automation tools/systems you have used on a regular basis to maintain the efficiency of business operations. Answer to this question is required Electronic Calendar (e.g., Microsoft Outlook or equivalent) Tracking logs (e.g., Word, Excel or equivalent) Word processing (e.g., Microsoft Word or equivalent) Human Resources Information System (e.g., PeopleSoft, Oracle, Federal Personnel and Payroll System etc.) Automated Time and Attendance system Shared electronic folders Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint or equivalent) SharePoint None of the above 7 Do you have experience making travel arrangements/ administering a travel program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience helping staff meet requirements for records management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience administering a company/office procurement purchase card? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you possess the Appropriations Law Seminar certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Office policies/procedures Expense summaries Justifications for supply/equipment requests Supply orders Email replies to customers None of the Above 12 Please select the statement that describes your highest level of experience gathering and organizing information: Answer to this question is required I do not have experience gathering or organizing information. I gathered and organized information in an academic role (e.g., to complete assignments, write papers), but have not applied this skill in my professional work. I gathered, analyzed, and organized information to complete a formal written proposal and/or oral presentation. I have reviewed and prioritized information I gathered to create a standard presentation delivered by others (e.g., PowerPoint with notes for a manager) in a professional setting. I gathered and organized information to draft reports, correspondence, and/or standard operating procedures. I have attended meetings with high ranking officials and VIPs to gather information on behalf of my supervisor or department. 13 Which response best describes your highest level of experience planning and organizing work in difficult circumstances (e.g., tight deadlines, changing resources)? Answer to this question is required I have not planned and organized work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and completing my own work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of staff`s work within my unit in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by cross-functional project teams in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by multiple teams in different functions under my control in difficult circumstances. 14 Which response best reflects your highest level of experience working cooperatively and collaboratively with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have worked on a team where each member had been designated a distinctly separate role and required minimal collaboration. I have encouraged individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with others to achieve a goal by sharing and integrating ideas, knowledge, information, and support resources. In a leadership capacity, I improved teamwork, cooperation, and productivity among various offices and teams. None of the above. 15 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Answer to this question is required Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g. percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables Developed spreadsheets Identified missing information Presented analyses in person None of the above 16 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by explaining policy to customers. I offered customers alternative solutions within policy limitations to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 17 Which of the following tasks regarding communication and customer service have you performed on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required Provided information in person or by phone. Communicated with individuals seeking assistance by providing general information. Exchanged information with individuals who were working on the same project/assignment Communicated with co-workers to resolve issues/problems. Communicated with supervisors and/or co-workers regarding work assignments. Communicated with others to obtain, clarify, or provide information pertaining to work-related subjects. None of the above 18 Describe your experience independently planning, analyzing, and carrying out administrative work assignments.&nbsp; (please ensure that this information is also reflected in your resume). Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.