Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have gained experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance and providing training to new workers. I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 4 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience with correctional administration, criminology, penology, or related field or has experience as a correctional officer supervising inmates on a day-to-day basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have indicated interested in working in a correctional institution during an interview; and/or I have displayed no negative information concerning aptitude for work with prisoners. I have supervised an inmate crew on a day-to-day basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. None of the above. 5 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of the overall repair and installation of complex valves and steam traps; the installation, prefabrication and assembly of pipe systems of various pipe materials and equipment; and the operation of shop machinery and test equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in assembling and setting in place various piping fixtures; and/or I have opened plugged drains by flooding vent pipes, reaming and drilling; and/or I have repaired malfunctioning commodes and simple valves. I have installed various kinds of pre-fabricated pipe systems involving clay pipe, copper, cast iron and plastic; and/or I have experience in the use of heating torches, solders, fluxes, special glues; and/or I have experience in installing sewer and drainage systems, pipe systems for garden sprinklers and overhead fire sprinklers; and/or I have experience in "roughing in" for fixtures. I have designed and assembled drainage systems; and/or I have repaired modulating or power driven valves; and/or I have worked on street sewer and drainage systems for cities; and/or I have been responsible for ensuring installations met the applicable building codes; and/or I have assigned and installed complete residential heating or boiler systems; and/or I possessed certification in the installation and inspections of backflow prevention systems. None of the above. 6 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of functions performed in the shop and in the field under different work situations. They must have knowledge in using alternative methods and/or tricks of the trade and latest developments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised a crew working on high rise structures, high pressure lines and large pumps; and/or I have knowledge of and used latest developments such unusual piping materials as glass and special plastics; and/or I have worked on piping systems in connection with nuclear power plants; and/or I have field experience and knowledge of installation and operation of backflow prevention systems. I have experience with "roughing in" for various types of plumbing fixtures; and/or I have knowledge of various municipal codes and ordinances; and/or I am familiar with the various methods of tunneling underground pipe. As a helper, I have assisted journeymen who employed trade skills and methods in unstopping drains in preparation for copper pipe sweating; and/or I have "roughed in" basic in fixtures; and/or I have assisted in the tunneling of underground pipe. None of the above. 7 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications, such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience working from blueprints, specifications and work orders; and/or I have experience as an independent plumber, planner, and/or estimator for residential projects. I have performed plumbing finishing work as directed by supervisor; and/or I have completed tasks by interpreting simple manufacturer's drawings. I have experience planning, estimating and contracting for work on difficult and involved projects, such as large restaurants, hospitals and laundries; and/or I have interpreted and applied complex drawings and blueprints to plan the installation of plumbing working in a large facility; and/or I have guided lower-level plumbers in new installation procedures and techniques. None of the above. 8 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lay out work from blueprints, and utilize tools common to the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have installed and lay out simple pipe systems; and/or I have installed basic drain systems from job orders, sketches, or verbal instructions; and/or I have sought assistance from foreman in performing new tasks. I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined exact material needs; and/or I have laid out individual work to be completed. I have performed extensive remodeling as an independent contractor or sub-contractor; and/or I have experience in constructing plans for schools and hospitals. None of the above. 9 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the knowledge and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used a hydraulic cast iron pipe cutter, burning torch, tapping machine and tunneling equipment; and/or I have experience using pipe wedging and seating tools; and/or I have experience using various piping materials, such as terra cotta, various types of plastic, wrought iron, cast iron, copper and glass. I have worked with plastic glues, dissimilar metals and cement; and/or I have experience using special tools designed for the use on a particular job; and/or I have worked with hand and power tools relevant to the plumbing trade; and/or I have used power and hand tools as intended. I have used wrenches, a soldering torch, rodding tools, stocks and dies. None of the above. 10 Plumbing Worker Supervisors must have the ability to independently diagnose problems, determine methods of repair, and recommend alternatives and solutions relative to the plumbing trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in diagnosing and determining remedy for common troubles; and/or I have experience in troubleshooting with instruments common to the trade; and/or I have discovered malfunctions by direct observation. I am considered an expert troubleshooter; and/or I have been called upon to diagnose trouble and determined remedy when other competent workers have failed to find the source of the problem; and/or I have experience in diagnosing trouble and determined remedy in complicated systems where knowledge in other lines of work is required. I have experience discovering simple malfunctions when troubleshooting involving the simplest decisions, such as locating and repairing a leaky valve in a water main; and/or I have discovered malfunctions where the source of trouble was betrayed by appearance, sound or response. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).