Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 (the Bureau of Prisons has defined mandatory training to be FAC-C Level II or a BOP Level III warrant) or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position; AND A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. OR Exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade. OR Waiver: When fillng a specific vacant position, the Senior Procurement Executive of the selecting agency, at his or her discretion, may waive any or all of the requirements of Paragraphs A and B above if the Senior Procurement Executive certifies that the applicant possesses significant potential for advancement to levels of greater responsibility and authority, based on demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and qualifying experience. With respect to each waiver granted under this Paragraph D, the Senior Procurement Executive must document for the record the basis of the waiver. If an individual is placed in a position in an agency on the basis of a waiver, the agency may later reassign that individual to another position at the same grade within that agency without additional waiver action. NOTE: The Agency has made a determination that a waiver may be granted for education only as described in Paragraph B. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A and B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described in C. Yes, I currently have a waiver for this grade level. No, I do not meet the educational requirement as described in A; however, I am requesting the Senior Procurement Executive to consider a waiver to be selected for this position. No, I have not completed the mandatory training as described in A. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement and a copy of their FAC-C Level II or a BOP Level III warrant. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Supervisory Contract Specialists must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, awarding, administering and closing-out contracts. They must be able to coordinate with technical staff in other Divisions or locations to award and administer complex agency-wide contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Justice Acquisition Regulations (JAR) and the Agency Acquisition Policy in soliciting, formulating, awarding, administering, terminating and closing out complex negotiated or sealed bid contracts; and/or I have made decisions to take an alternate course of action that resulted in savings to the Government; and/or I have researched and interpreted past court rulings to justify action taken on contracts; and/or I have researched existing sources of supply to utilize an already existing contract or interagency agreement to fulfill a requirement; and/or I have provided guidance to subordinate staff when applying procurement regulations. I have applied the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Justice Acquisition Regulations (JAR) and Agency Acquisition Policy in issuing contract modifications; and/or I have followed guidelines in issuing pre-solicitation notices to the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBizOpps) website; and/or I have applied agency regulations to resolve conflict over price, cost, and/or technical issues; and/or I have applied procurement regulations in purchasing diversified types of supplies, equipment, services, and construction; and/or I have used agency policy to determine liquidated damages. I have followed organization's guidelines to modify or close-out contracts; and/or I have applied a limited number of directives in the Federal Government ( i.e., assisted in interpreting agency directives and policies on routine contracts or purchase orders); and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, solicitation cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. None of the above. 6 Supervisory Contract Specialists must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. They must be able to prepare reports, contract documents, and other correspondence. They must provide written reports to upper level management on procurement-related matters. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed solicitation forms; and/or I have written inter-office memos; and/or I have assisted in writing standard contract file memos; and/or I have completed release of claims form for contract closeout; and/or I have responded to offer or inquiries from Federal Business Opportunities. I have made recommendations for Statements of Work to technical staff; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information (FOIA) requests; and/or I have prepared agendas for pre-proposal and pre-construction conferences; and/or I have written correspondence to contractor/project representative on status of contracts; and/or I have I have written weekly/monthly reports on contract progress; and/or I have written letters or other documentation for the contract file; and/or I have written determinations of responsibility. I have developed guidance material for program personnel; and/or I have written and issued contracting officer’s final decision on contractor claims or disputes; and/or I have requested legal opinions; and/or I have written summary or recommendations based legal opinions; and/or I have responded to Congressional inquiries; and/or I have responded to Board of Contract Appeals or the Comptroller General regarding protests or disputes; and/or I have developed and written acquisition training manuals; and/or I have reviewed regional/field contract operations and made recommendations for improvement; and/or I have developed and written policy/procedural changes; and/or I have prepared special reports for upper level management. None of the above. 7 Supervisory Contract Specialists must be able to use tact and diplomancy when communicating with contractors, corporate officials, state and local officials, technical staff, managers, and Executive Staff. They are&nbsp;also responsible for training staff in procurement related topics such as ethics and purchase card procedures. They&nbsp;must also motivate, counsel and train subordinate staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in staff assistance visits or program reviews to advise and improve operations at institutions experiencing procurement problems; and/or I have participated in the negotiations team; and/or I have dealt with high level business, industry or Government officials in discussing contract issues; and/or I have provided assistance to the technical management team; and/or I have guided lower level staff in day-to-day operations; and/or I have negotiated equitable adjustments. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to subordinates; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have kept supervisor abreast on issues affecting contracts. I have conducted a training class involving program staff from various backgrounds; and/or I have presented material to upper level management staff; and/or I have conducted meetings involving contractors, facility staff, and high-level management, such as pre-solicitation conferences or pre-construction meetings; and/or I have led a negotiations team; and/or I have made presentations at procurement trade fairs and conferences; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to program personnel or field contracting staff; and/or I have conducted negotiations involving changes to contract requirements; and/or I have provided guidance to subordinate staff on procurement-related matters. None of the above. 8 Supervisory Contract Specialists must have knowledge and expertise of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types, the proper clauses and provisions to include in a solicitation, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and providing guidance and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined deficiencies in pre/post award reviews; and/or I have provided instructional guidance on procurement matters; and/or I have performed forecasting techniques to determine need for a procurement; and/or I have recommended changes to procurement policy/procedures that were implemented by the organization; and/or I have used cost and price analysis to finalize modifications; and/or I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have performed price analysis to determine price reasonableness; and/or I have executed modifications and issued amendments; and/or I have used the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Justice Acquisition Regulations (JAR) and Agency Acquisition Policy to solicit, award, administer, and close out routine contracts. I have made decisions regarding contract type and required clauses/provisions to include in supply, service, or construction solicitations or contracts; and/or I have resolved conflicts with contractors during the contract administration phase; and/or I have conducted various progress meetings with contractors and technical staff during the life of the contract; and/or I have analyzed settlement proposals; and/or I have performed price analysis; and/or I have evaluated and made changes to procurement policy and procedures; and/or I have analyzed industry patterns and practices; and/or I have investigated contract claims and disputes; and/or I have performed economic forecasting techniques in preparing procurement plans; and/or I have solicited, negotiated, awarded, administered, and closed out complex contracts; and/or I have provided training to subordinate staff in the area of contract administration. I have assisted in awarding, administering, and closing-out contracts; and/or I have prepared solicitation packages or sent documents to bidders; and/or I have assisted others in interpreting and applying Federal Government regulations; and/or I have prepared market surveys to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, solicitation cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. None of the above. 9 Supervisory Contract Specialists must be able to make numerous independent decisions with regard to determining type of contract and required clauses and provisions, contract award, resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contracts and contract termination. At this level, they must have the ability to make decisions affecting more than one field location or division within Central Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered information to be used in making contract decisions; and/or I have conducted price analysis for determining the most reasonable prices; and/or I have responded to contractor inquiries regarding contract issues; and/or I have reviewed invoices and vouchers to ensure accuracy. I have determined if the agency was following procurement regulations and policies; and/or I have made award decisions; and/or I have determined when to issue contract modifications; and/or I have assisted in settling disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of contractor to meet contract requirements. I have monitored the contractor’s performance in existing contracts; and/or I have determined corrective action on breached contracts; and/or I have evaluated and advised management in correcting deficiencies in agency contracting procedures; and/or I have investigated labor violations of contractors and determined appropriate actions; and/or I have audited or reviewed contracts to determine if they were in compliance with Federal regulations; and/or I have determined the continuing need for or cancellation of services; and/or I have evaluated modification proposals from contractors; and/or I have settled disputes with contractors; and/or I have made decision in a contract affecting more than one field location or a division in headquarters. None of the above. 10 Supervisory Contract Specialists must possess the knowledge and expertise to develop and administer specific contract policies and procedures for a particular procurement or project, or for a contracting operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to an organization in meeting established contract guidelines; and/or I have provided assistance in administering policies and procedures in Federal Government; and/or I have provided oversight for small purchases; and/or I have assisted others in providing routine contract administration functions. I have monitored contracts; and/or I have provided routine contract policy interpretation to agency personnel; and/or I have made recommendations for changes to agency policies or procedures; and/or I have participated in a Program Review or staff assist visit, and provided recommendations for improvement to the procurement operation. I have developed contract evaluation and award criteria; and/or I have established contract ordering procedures for a requirements type contract; and/or I have performed contract close-out procedures; and/or I have performed long-range planning and goal setting for the agency; and/or I have provided contract interpretation for agency or contractor personnel; and/or I have developed agency pre-proposal/pre-construction conference guidelines or agendas; and/or I have made changes to agency policy or Program Review Guidelines to assist in meeting the goals of the agency. None of the above. 11 Supervisory Contract Specialists must be able to assign responsibility to subordinate staff in order to ensure the efficiency of service provided by the contracting operation. This includes monitoring the workload and abilities of staff to determine if additional assistance or training may be required. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in long-range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have taught a formal or informal course to subordinate staff; and/or I have monitored the workload of subordinate staff; and/or I have recommended changes be made to organization policy to assist in meeting the goals of the organization. I have reviewed current contracting operations to develop new procedures or make adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to due date; and/or I have prioritized own work in meeting deadlines. I have coordinated and monitored long range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have taught a formal contracting/finance course to subordinate staff or field managers/supervisors; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output to accomplish the goals of the organization; and/or I have made changes to organization policy to meet the goals of the organization; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinate staff to help them attain the organization’s goals. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).