Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience in at least 3 of the following: (1) Serving as a safety engineering point of contact for all safety engineering related issues for a large design and construction office; (2) Interpreting and applying occupational safety and health standards (Electrical safety (NFPA 70/70-E), control of hazardous energy, confined space, machine guarding, welding, cutting, and brazing, incident investigation, radio frequency) regulations, practices and policies; (3) Directing an organization's Safety and Health Engineering programs and related projects; and (4) Representing an organization on matters related to safety compliance before federal, state, and industry authorities. 3 Which activities have you performed as a Safety Engineer? Answer to this question is required I have conducted risk and job hazard analyses during design to mitigate risks by applying hazard control principles through engineering, construction planning, administrative controls, and utilizing personal protective equipment. I have worked with new, existing, historic buildings and other structures in a myriad of locations and environmental extremes. I have conducted construction safety inspections/observations identifying deficiencies and ensuring resolution. I have performed quality assurance reviews of design documents to verify submissions meet quality and professional standards and methodologies established by your professional discipline and comply with applicable laws, codes, regulations, policies, and guidelines. I have performed accident investigation procedures and techniques. I have maintained professional proficiency by staying on the leading edge of technology within safety engineering. I have reviewed construction contractors Health and Safety Plans/Accident Prevention Plans, including recommending acceptance or rejection of these plans. None of the above 4 Which tasks have you performed related to safety and occupational health program management? Answer to this question is required Implementing programs to reduce the frequency, severity, and cost of accidents and occupational illnesses Integrating safety and occupational health (SOH) criteria into the initial planning phase of acquisition, construction, and resource change proposals Performing cost benefit analyses to control or eliminate known risks Assessing the adequacy of safety and occupational health (SOH) program efforts Evaluating statistical data to determine trends Identifying ways to minimize training time across multiple programs None of the above 5 Select all responses to the following statements that apply to your experience communicating with others orally. Answer to this question is required Conducting and/or facilitating group discussions. Conducting and/or facilitating formal meetings. Interviewing people to elicit facts or obtain information. Consulting or advising on occupational safety and health issues. Communicating results of evaluations or reviews. Presenting complex, technical information to persons unfamiliar with the subject. Participating in education, training, or apprenticeship programs requiring oral presentation. Providing instructions, training, and advice to other professional employees. None of the above 6 Select one choice that best describes your presentation experience: Answer to this question is required I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from Agency, Department, other Federal agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience communicating information in written format? Answer to this question is required I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have provided written reports of findings/solutions. I have written official directives, instructions, and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written health and safety plans for worksites at government buildings/facilities. I have written health and safety plans for worksites, operated environmental monitoring instruments to detect airborne contaminants, and determined the level of personal protective gear required. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 8 Do you have experience reviewing construction contractors Safety and/or Accident Prevention Plans for acceptance or rejection? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which tasks have you performed related to process improvement and data-driven decision-making in support of occupational health and safety or engineering practices? (Please circle all that apply) Answer to this question is required Using safety and operational data to identify trends, root causes, and opportunities for process improvement. Supporting or leading engineering design reviews with a focus on safety integration and hazard mitigation. Applying Prevention through Design (PtD) principles to eliminate or reduce hazards during the design phase. Conducting Root Cause Analysis (RCA) to investigate incidents, near-hits, or system failures. Developing or improving procedures and workflows based on analysis of leading and lagging safety indicators. Participating in cross-functional teams to evaluate system failures or near-hit events and recommend corrective actions. Using tools such as FMEA, fault tree analysis, or control charts to inform risk-based decision-making. None of the above. 10 Which types of sites have you performed occupational health and safety inspections? Answer to this question is required Construction sites in occupied buildings New construction sites Renovation sites General Industry activities i.e., maintenance, office safety, shop safety etc. None of the above 11 Which tasks have you performed related to the development and implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (OHSMS)? (Please circle all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developing and implementing safety management systems aligned with ISO 45001, ANSI Z10, or OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP). Conducting gap analyses to evaluate compliance with OHSMS standards and identify areas for improvement. Establishing safety objectives, performance indicators, and continual improvement processes within a management system framework. Coordinating internal audits and management reviews as part of the OHSMS cycle. Supporting integration of OHSMS with environmental or quality management systems (e.g., ISO 14001 or ISO 9001). Facilitating employee participation and leadership engagement in OHSMS-related activities. Developing and implementing strategies to enhance employee involvement in hazard identification, safety reporting, and program improvement. Using a data-driven approach to support decision-making by establishing leading and lagging indicators and impact measures in alignment with ANSI Z16.1 framework or others. None of the above. 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.