Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be uploaded and&nbsp;electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Forensics Unit Psychologist must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological tests, neuropsychological tests, and make inferences about inmates&rsquo; behavior in order to effectively counsel, evaluate, and treat them. He/she also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least one type of psychological assessment such as: objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, neurological assessment, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have actively participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological assessment, objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, intelligence assessment or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written interpretative result summaries; and/or I have actively participated in a research project involving the administration and scoring of psychological assessments. I have conducted psychological assessments such as: objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, neurological assessment, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psycho pathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have written a summary of assessment results; and/or I have assisted in a research project that included assessments. None of the above. 5 The Forensics Unit Psychologist must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substances abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions, such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. I have discussed treatment goals for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions, such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have conducted a psycho-educational training session on a treatment intervention like behavioral management techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention or anger management; and/or I have participated in research on treatment (i.e., exploring the effectiveness of relaxation training on stress reduction) and made recommendations from the outcome to upper management. I have provided information based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have conducted training in at least two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. None of the above. 6 The Forensics Unit Psychologist must have knowledge of mood disorders, substance abuse disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand inmate behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of the major duties is counseling inmates individually and in a group setting. He/she must have working knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality, substance abuse, and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-led individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral management, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychoanalytic therapy, psycho-educational training or biofeedback; and/or I have actively participated in a research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-led group psychotherapy. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational or biofeedback; and/or I have designed a research study which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. I have recommended individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have recommended a psychotherapy group. None of the above. 7 The Forensics Unit Psychologist has an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency and assisted with crisis management; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center to provided therapeutic services; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have actively participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation, which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating by calming the parties involved. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have referred patients with severe adjustment problems for crisis intervention; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have voiced understanding of how to respond to a medical emergency; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have helped plan a mock exercise of an emergency situation. None of the above. 8 The Forensics Unit Psychologist is responsible for providing expert opinions in writing and in court testimony on behalf of Federal judges. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated patients requesting consideration for social security benefits due to a mental condition; and/or I have conducted emergency room screenings of potential civil commitment cases; and/or I have conducted psychological testing and summarized test results on pretrial criminal defendants. I have, in an adult criminal justice setting, inpatient or outpatient, treated inmates, defendants or patients with court-ordered treatment guidelines; and/or I have provided treatment updates to courts and criminal justice personnel; and/or I have received post-doctoral training on adult forensic psychological practice issues; and/or I have received supervisory support on court-ordered evaluations and treatment. I have, in an adult criminal justice setting, performed comprehensive psychological evaluations, provided written reports and testified as an expert regarding competency to stand trial and responsibility at the time of the offense (insanity pleas); and/or I have used psycho-diagnostic assessment techniques; and/or I have received post-doctoral training on adult forensic psychology to evaluate defendants for mental illness as it relates to court proceedings and judgements. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be uploaded and&nbsp;electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Forensics Unit Psychologist must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological tests, neuropsychological tests, and make inferences about inmates&rsquo; behavior in order to effectively counsel, evaluate, and treat them. He/she also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least one type of psychological assessment such as: objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, neurological assessment, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have actively participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological assessment, objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, intelligence assessment or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written interpretative result summaries; and/or I have actively participated in a research project involving the administration and scoring of psychological assessments. I have conducted psychological assessments such as: objective personality assessment, projective personality assessment, neurological assessment, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psycho pathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have written a summary of assessment results; and/or I have assisted in a research project that included assessments. None of the above. 5 The Forensics Unit Psychologist must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substances abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions, such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. I have discussed treatment goals for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions, such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have conducted a psycho-educational training session on a treatment intervention like behavioral management techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention or anger management; and/or I have participated in research on treatment (i.e., exploring the effectiveness of relaxation training on stress reduction) and made recommendations from the outcome to upper management. I have provided information based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have conducted training in at least two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. None of the above. 6 The Forensics Unit Psychologist must have knowledge of mood disorders, substance abuse disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand inmate behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of the major duties is counseling inmates individually and in a group setting. He/she must have working knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality, substance abuse, and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-led individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral management, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychoanalytic therapy, psycho-educational training or biofeedback; and/or I have actively participated in a research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-led group psychotherapy. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational or biofeedback; and/or I have designed a research study which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. I have recommended individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have recommended a psychotherapy group. None of the above. 7 The Forensics Unit Psychologist has an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency and assisted with crisis management; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center to provided therapeutic services; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have actively participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation, which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating by calming the parties involved. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have referred patients with severe adjustment problems for crisis intervention; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have voiced understanding of how to respond to a medical emergency; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have helped plan a mock exercise of an emergency situation. None of the above. 8 The Forensics Unit Psychologist is responsible for providing expert opinions in writing and in court testimony on behalf of Federal judges. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated patients requesting consideration for social security benefits due to a mental condition; and/or I have conducted emergency room screenings of potential civil commitment cases; and/or I have conducted psychological testing and summarized test results on pretrial criminal defendants. I have, in an adult criminal justice setting, inpatient or outpatient, treated inmates, defendants or patients with court-ordered treatment guidelines; and/or I have provided treatment updates to courts and criminal justice personnel; and/or I have received post-doctoral training on adult forensic psychological practice issues; and/or I have received supervisory support on court-ordered evaluations and treatment. I have, in an adult criminal justice setting, performed comprehensive psychological evaluations, provided written reports and testified as an expert regarding competency to stand trial and responsibility at the time of the offense (insanity pleas); and/or I have used psycho-diagnostic assessment techniques; and/or I have received post-doctoral training on adult forensic psychology to evaluate defendants for mental illness as it relates to court proceedings and judgements. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).