Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Facilities Services Worker under normal supervision as described in the announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have the ability to supervise Facility Services Workers? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to lead? Answer to this question is required I have provided leadership to employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by employees and I have also established deadlines. I have provided guidance to employees. I have reviewed the work of my employees. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience in all of the following supervisory duties: making assignments, establishing deadlines; and justifying overtime (only when absolutely necessary)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience with all of the following personnel duties: certifying timesheets, establishing performance standards/appraising performance and recommending corrective action? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following road conditions do you have experience supervising motor vehicle operators to safely operate a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting passengers or cargo in the support of accomplishing the mission of an organization? (This does not include vehicles for personal use). Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Rain. Snow. Hail. Heavy traffic. Mountainous roads. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience reading and interpreting instructions? Answer to this question is required I read and interpret instructions, specifications, and directions. I carry out instructions which involve decisions based on pre-established guidelines. I carry out instructions to perform simple tasks that require several steps. I ask clarifying questions when instructions or directions are unclear. I can follow written directions given by a supervisor or manager on work procedures or processes. I can complete and understand routine paperwork in order to carry through work assignments such as completing or verifying standard or inventory forms legibly. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following materials do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tide strap. Shrink wrap. Pallets. Padding. Cleaning compound. Cardboard boxes. Crates. Storage bins. None of the above. 9 Which of the following Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have you used? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Gloves. Ear plugs. Safety glasses/goggles. Safety shoes. Hard hats. Aprons. Fall protection equipment (i.e., harness). None of the above. 10 Which of the following indoor/outdoor, warehouse, and/or loading dock tasks do you have experience performing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have opened crating and boxes. I have cleaned and removed debris from exterior areas. I have removed snow and ice from sidewalks, steps, driveways, and parking areas. I have moved furniture and/or equipment. I have loaded and unloaded debris, trash, equipment, supplies, packages, and other materials. I have arranged and lifted very large and unusually heavy materials and collections. I have maintained material stock supplies. I have not done any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following types of mobile equipment do you have experience operating? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Exterior scrubber Interior scrubber Exterior sweeper Fork lift Scissor lift Trucks NTW 5,000 lbs Cushman None of the above 12 Which of the following types of operator-level maintenance equipment and equipment inspections procedures have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Brush height controls Fan controls Electrical system operation Electrical oil pressure Noting gauges and warning lights Taking appropriate action based on unusual high or low monitor engine Filter shaker control None of the above 13 What is your level of experience providing facility maintenance in a building with a high public visitation rate? Answer to this question is required I have provided facility maintenance for a building that exceeds 750,000 visitors per year. I have provided facility maintenance for a building that exceeds 250,000 visitors per year. I have provided facility maintenance for a building that exceeds 10,000 visitors per year. I have no experience providing facility maintenance in a public building. 14 Which of the following best describes your training and/or experience working within the shipping/receiving functions? Answer to this question is required I work independently to perform the following duties: inspect shipments, schedule and track jobs, make shipments and deliveries, load and unload trucks, transport cargo, and control loading dock traffic. I perform the following duties: inspect shipments, schedule and track jobs, make shipments and deliveries, load and unload trucks, transport cargo, and control loading dock traffic (under close supervision). I have transported cargo and loaded and unloaded cargo. I have inspected shipments for damages, hazards, and accuracy. Although I have no experience I have training in inspecting shipments, scheduling and tracking jobs, making shipments and deliveries, loading and unloading trucks, transporting cargo, and controlling loading dock traffic. I have not inspected shipments, scheduled and tracked jobs, made shipments and deliveries, loaded and unloaded trucks, transported cargo, and controlled loading dock traffic. 15 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of practices related to screening packages and identifying hazardous materials? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have performed this task on the job under close supervision. I have minimal experience in performing this task. I have no experience in performing this task. 16 Do you possess strength, stamina, and mobility to perform heavy physical work outdoors in all weather conditions and with exposure to potentially hazardous conditions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Do you have the ability to lift 50 pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Do you have a valid State or District of Columbia drivers' license, and a qualifying safe driving record? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following best describes the number of moving violations you have received within the last two years? Answer to this question is required 0 1 2 More than 2 Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.