Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Apply Administrative Processes and Techniques in Support of Programs and Activities.** Served as an administrative support professional, responsible for assisting managers and staff in the delivery of key programs within a Federal agency. These programs included: 1) finance, 2) travel, 3) facilities, 4) procurement, 5) website maintenance, 6) staffing and recruitment, 7) performance management, 8) training, and 9) timekeeping. Answer to this question is required Performed administrative work activities within a Federal agency in support of AT LEAST FIVE of the programs listed above. These activities included explaining and providing guidance to managers and staff on related policies, procedures and regulations. Performed administrative work activities within a Federal agency in support of AT LEAST FOUR of the programs listed above. These activities included explaining and providing guidance to managers and staff on related policies, procedures and regulations. Performed administrative work activities within a Federal agency in support of AT LEAST THREE of the programs listed above. These activities were routinely performed in direct support of management. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability Interact Collaboratively with Others.** The ability to work well and cooperate with others, including those holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals. This includes showing understanding and respect for others. This also includes relating well to people from varied and diverse backgrounds as well as dealing effectively with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure financial and procurement matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Attempted to discover similarities and differences in perspectives in order to work better together. Sought and used others’ ideas to accomplish goals of collaboration. Valued, promoted, and utilized diversity and differences in others. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure financial and procurement matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Attempted to discover similarities and differences in perspectives in order to work better together. Sought and used others’ ideas to accomplish goals of collaboration. Valued, promoted, and utilized diversity and differences in others. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office on financial and procurement matters. Suggested courses of action to accomplish goals of collaboration. When necessary, showed willingness to compromise based on others' suggestions. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to Utilize Computer Technology.** Utilized technological tools and business system applications to support an organization including: 1) Microsoft Office Suite business products (e.g., Word, Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint); 2) Financial systems (e.g., Momentum, Library of Congress Reporting System, Library of Congress Budget System); 3) applicant tracking system (e.g., Monster, etc.), 4) Conferencing software (e.g. Skype, Zoom); 5) Web-based collaborative work tools (e.g., SharePoint), 6) Automated performance management systems; 7) Automated workflow systems (e.g., SBM), and 8) Facilities systems (e.g., FAME, AHAP, etc.). Answer to this question is required Have experience using AT LEAST FIVE of the above. Have experience using, AT LEAST FOUR of the above. Have experience using AT LEAST THREE of the above. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Solve Problems. Identified problems related to an office&rsquo;s operations or processes and applied appropriate solutions to resolve them. Answer to this question is required As an administrative support professional, ROUTINELY analyzed administrative data as well as programs, processes, and procedures in order to recommend improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations and the development of potential solutions and recommendations that were endorsed by management. As an administrative support professional, OCCASIONALLY analyzed administrative programs, processes and procedures in order to recommend improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations and the development of potential solutions and recommendations that were endorsed by management. As an administrative support professional, ASSISTED in reviewing or evaluating an administrative program, policy, or procedure by gathering and compiling data. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).