Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for the GS-11 grade level, MUST also possess one of the following Selective Placement Factors. In the event you do not possess one of these Selective Placement Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. From the choices below, select the factor you possess. Answer to this question is required I have 24 semester hours of graduate level work in clinical counseling, social work, clinical psychology or sex offender treatment. NOTE: All applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. I have 24 months of professional experience in clinical counseling with sex offenders or a mental health population. NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. I do not possess either Selective Placement Factor. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Sex Offender Program Specialists must demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive clinical reports for treatment planning and/or risk management in the context of a specialized program for sex offenders. They must write discharge reports used for release planning prior to community placement. Discharge reports are included with correspondence to United States Probation, and may also be reviewed by other outside agencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As an independent practitioner, I have authored psychological evaluations for a forensic study unit; and/or as a primary evaluator, I have written discharge reports for a sex offender evaluation and treatment unit; and/or as an independent practitioner, I have authored psychological evaluations of sex offenders to determine treatment needs in the context of a residential treatment program. As a subordinate or mid-level practitioner, I have authored psychological evaluations for a forensic study unit; and/or as an intern, I have written discharge reports for a sex offender evaluation and treatment unit; and/or as a mid- level practitioner (for the review of a supervising psychologist), I have authored psychological evaluations of sex offenders to determine treatment needs in the context of a residential treatment program. I have written intake evaluations for an outpatient treatment clinic; and/or I have completed written summaries of patient ' s mental health histories; and/or I have written contact notes on therapy sessions; and/or I have authored treatment plans and treatment progress updates; and/or I have completed brief mental health assessments on medical patients. None of the above. 5 Sex Offender Program Specialist must be able to demonstrate the ability to provide clinical treatment services in either a group or individual setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided community supervision to a caseload of sex offenders; and/or I have conducted interviews and wrote pre - sentence reports on sex offenders and completed a graduate - level course on Introduction to Counseling Techniques; and/or I have assessed the release needs of incarcerated sex offenders and provided counseling on release planning issues. As an intern, I have provided group counseling services at an outpatient mental health clinic; and/or as a mid-level practitioner, I have conducted counseling individual psychotherapy sessions at an inpatient psychiatric treatment program under the supervision of a licensed psychologist; and/or as a practicum student, I have conducted individual psychotherapy sessions at a university counseling center. I have made final determinations of treatment(s) required for sex offenders and implemented appropriate treatment plans; and/or I have facilitated psychotherapy groups for sex offenders with oversight responsibility of program operations in a correctional environment; and/or I have provided individual and group counseling to sex offenders; and/or I have trained others in individual and group counseling techniques for sex offender populations. None of the above. 6 Sex Offender Program Specialists conduct risk assessments and comprehensive diagnostic assessments of sex offenders utilizing tests and psychometric instruments specifically designed for use with this population. They must demonstrate proficiency with the diagnostic nomenclature contained in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) and the ability to administer, score and interpret specialized assessment instruments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed intake evaluations on sex offenders as a component of an inpatient treatment program; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluations of sex offenders, including the use of psychometric instruments; and/or as an examiner for the courts, I have conducted psychological evaluations on sex offenders. I have conducted discharge reports on civilly-committed sex offenders; and/or I have performed risk assessments on incarcerated sex offenders; and/or I have conducted psychological assessments on sex offenders explicitly addressing risk factors. I have performed psycho- social interview on sex offenders; and/or I have administered, scored, and interpreted psychological tests of sex offenders; and/or I have conducted treatment planning interviews on sex offenders; and/or I have conducted psycho-sexual history interviews with sex offenders; and/or I have performed clinical screening interviews with sex offenders. None of the above. 7 Sex Offender Program Specialist must demonstrate an extensive knowledge of the psychopathology of sexual offending. They employ evidence-based techniques for the assessment and treatment of sex offenders or individuals with paraphilic disorders. They must demonstrate the ability to provide mental health treatment services for sex offenders in a group or individual setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered, scored, and interpreted sex offender risk assessment instruments (e.g., STATIC; RRASOR; MnSOST); and/or I have certified to conduct polygraph examinations on sex offenders; and/or I have administered and interpreted penile plethysmograph (PPG) examinations on sex offenders. I have completed a two - week continuing education course on working with sex offenders; and/or I have completed a formal internship rotation with sex offenders; and/or I have completed a clinical practicum or outplacement with sex offenders. I have conducted screenings as a psychotherapist at an outpatient treatment center for sex offenders; and/or I have performed psychological assessments on sex offenders; and/or I have consulted with treatment teams to discuss clients/patients progress. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).