Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission - Protecting People and the Environment Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 (F0265) Demonstrated experience in organizing and leading a multi-disciplined inspection team, developing consensus positions on controversial technical matters and achieving cooperative resolution of inspection related differences with the licensee and NRC staff. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required (F0265) Describe professional experience leading team inspections and developing consensus on complex safety and technical issues. 2 Demonstrated abilities in the implementation of the Agency's Reactor Oversight Process including inspection, application of the significance determination and performance assessment processes, and ability to use risk to evaluate events and inspection findings. (See examples below) Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required (X0206) Describe specific experience, training, and accomplishments which demonstrate your ability to apply the operating Reactor Inspection Program. Describe your ability to assess the significance of inspection findings and/or events and disposition them through the oversight program. Describe your experience in the application of the Reactor Oversight Programs performance assessment process. Describe your knowledge and experience in application of probabilistic risk assessment tools. 3 Demonstrated ability and experience in applying NRC regulations for reactor design, operations, maintenance, engineering, and plant support consistent with that gained through completion of inspector qualifications. (Describe specific experience and training which demonstrates your knowledge of nuclear industry codes and standards and plant operations. Describe specific working knowledge of NRC rules and regulations.) Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required Describe specific experience and training which demonstrates your knowledge of nuclear industry codes and standards and plant operations. Describe specific working knowledge of NRC rules and regulations. 4 (F0243) Demonstrated ability to communicate well, both orally and in writing. (This includes demonstrated ability to establish effective working relationships with supervisors, Government and industry officials, utility employees and managers, Government committees, co-workers, media personnel, NRC officials and senior managers, as well as the ability to write technical reports containing findings, analyses, and conclusions.&nbsp; This also includes demonstrated ability to lead organizational change initiatives, especially those associated with applying risk-informed principles to the regulatory process.) (See examples below) Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required (F0243) In addressing the question above, describe the kinds of briefings or other oral presentations you have made, to whom and for what purpose. Describe the types of original writing you routinely perform, the complexity of topics and typical audience for such written work products. Describe a few of the most difficult written and/or oral presentation assignments you have completed, and with what results. Tell what made them difficult, e.g., topical controversy or other complicating factors. Describe a situation in which you were able to persuade others to accept a change or idea to which they were originally resistant, and explain how you effectively did so.&nbsp; Describe a situation where you championed the use of risk-informed principles in decision making. 5 This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details We welcome your feedback on NRCareers. To contact us, please see Contact Us About Employment and select NRCareers from the dropdown list. Working at NRC Opportunities Outreach New Employees Apply Now Contact Us This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).