Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of an insulation worker? Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to journeymen performing insulation work such as gathering needed materials/tools to complete a project and cleaning up areas. I have performed insulations for structures with flat, square, or cylindrical surfaces, straight runs, and regular curves (e.g., pipes, boilers, ducts). I have performed insulations for structures with irregular shaped surfaces (e.g., turbines, heaters, valves). I have performed finishing work to ensure exposed materials visually match the environment and are aesthetically pleasing. None of the above 2 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules Lead daily meetings Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Provided feedback on tasks completed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Monitored performance for unsafe practices None of the above 3 Do you have experience in providing hands on training to employees? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Do you possess a Lead Abatement Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have a current confined space certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 For which purposes have you read and interpreted drawings/prints? Answer to this question is required To locate existing structures To plan system/insulation locations for remodeling projects To determine amount/type of materials needed None of the above 7 I have interpreted drawings or prints of relevant systems (e.g., piping systems, ductwork systems) to perform insulation work. Answer to this question is required True False 8 Which Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have you used? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Half face respirator Full face respirator Powered air purifying respirator (PAPR) Tyvek suit / coveralls Body harness and lanyard Personal Air Monitor Cut resistant gloves Eye and face protection None of the above 9 I have evaluated the suitability and condition of existing insulation to determine required maintenance actions. Answer to this question is required True False 10 Select the highest altitude at which you have performed work while standing on scaffolding, lifts, or ladders. Answer to this question is required Less than 10 feet 10-20 feet 21-30 feet More than 30 feet 11 Select the mathematical calculations you have computed to measure and lay out insulation work. Answer to this question is required Inside diameter (ID) Outside diameter (OD) Circumference Square feet Cubic feet Length or linear run None of the above 12 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience taking precise measurements? Answer to this question is required I have measured flat and square surfaces. I have measured cylindrical and regularly curved surfaces. I have measured objects with irregular dimensions (e.g., valves, flanges). None of the above. 13 Select the hand tools you have used to install insulation. Answer to this question is required Scissor Divider Roller Notcher Saw (i.e., hand saw, pruning saw) Trowel None of the above 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 15 Do you have Asbestos Abatement Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Do you have experience removing and disposing of hazardous materials, such as asbestos and lead? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.