Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Personnel Security Specialist communicate with executive staff, management, line staff, applicants, and the general public.&nbsp; He/she responds to technical questions and give personnel security related presentations and training. During the adjudication process, he/she must establish and maintain positive working relationships with individuals internal and external to the agency.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained general qualification and application procedures to staff and the general public; and/or I have advised supervisors of issues involving non-compliance to policy; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to field personnel on various specialty issues; and/or I have responded to non-sensitive outside inquiries; and/or I have briefed local executive staff on institution policies/procedural changes; and/or I have conducted Institution Familiarization training or New Employee Orientation for new agency/organization employees. I have answered routine questions regarding basic personnel procedures and policies; and/or I have briefed supervisor of issue or concern encountered while completing an assignment; and/or I have communicated findings to supervisor/management resulting from an operational review, or comparable internal audit. I have answered recurring departmental questions received; and/or I have given status report of projects/assignments during departmental meetings; and/or I have resolved routine discrepancies with others; and/or I have given a presentation about employment opportunities at a job fair. None of the above. 5 Personnel Security Specialist write a variety of technical correspondence, to include interrogatories and justifications on suitability, and/or security determinations/employment security approvals.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills in order to effectively perform the requirements associated with this position.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed basic personnel/security forms; and/or I have drafted vacancy announcements for review and approval prior to positing; and/or I have assisted in preparing a portion of a recurring report or document. I have prepared correspondence to supervisors outlining performance appraisal requirements; and/or I have prepared training opportunity/vacancy announcements; and/or I have assisted supervisors in writing position descriptions; and/or I have written reports and informational memoranda to the supervisor; and/or I have prepared performance log entries. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared a waiver request as required by policy; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from within the organization. None of the above. 6 Personnel Security Specialist utilize current personnel security policies and procedures in the adjudication of all background investigations.&nbsp; He/she will conduct thorough review of information gathered to ensure applicants/employees are afforded &ldquo;due process&rdquo; in resolving issues and discrepancies discovered during the background investigation process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted NCIC/NLETS checks on applicants, volunteers and contractors; and/or I have applied established personnel security guidelines to review and closeout non-issue cases; and/or I have created security files and routed for review and approval. I have initiated background investigations on applicants; and/or I have created a vacancy announcement; and/or I have conducted pre-employment vouchering and law checks. I have applied established personnel security guidelines to review and closeout non-issue cases; and/or I have conducted follow-up interviews to clarify a response provided during a background investigation interview; and/or I have followed up with law enforcement agencies to receive required vouchering results on applicants. None of the above. 7 Personnel Security Specialist must have the ability to collect, organize and analyze all pertinent information in an effort to favorably resolve issues contained in a background investigation. He/she must be able to make a written recommendation for a suitability/security determination/employment security approval.&nbsp; In those instances where favorable adjudication is not possible, the Security Specialist must make a written recommendation to the Warden/CEO so they can make an employment determination.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided input and feedback to other departments on recurring issues; and/or I have collected sufficient data to be used by supervisor in updating internal controls which ensure policy compliance; and/or I have assisted in gathering, analyzing and formulating plans of action to improve a program or revise a policy; and/or I have identified a deficiency in procedures and notified supervisor for further action. I have utilized established checklists to ensure all steps are completed in compliance with policy; and/or I have researched specific information at the request and instruction of supervisor; and/or I have analyzed a current or recurring issue and provided recommendations for resolution to management for consideration. I have assisted in analysis and providing recommendations for program goals; and/or I have assisted in performing a portion of research for a project; and/or I have prepared checklists for work procedures. None of the above. 8 Personnel Security Specialist must be able to interpret and apply all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively administer the security program for the Federal Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed time and attendance records for a small workforce; and/or I have made hotel reservations based on per diem requirements; and/or I have prepared travel vouchers and assisted employees in completing travel settlement paperwork; and/or I have assisted an applicant with completing background clearance form. I have utilized established checklist or procedure to ensure actions taken comply with policy; and/or I have resolved routine issues in compliance with established policy/procedures; and/or I have reconciled credit card statements in compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have provided talking points on interpreting credit reports; and/or I have processed and keyed personnel actions for new and existing employees. I have processed routine documents or forms; and/or I have evaluated basic qualifications of candidates; and/or I have responded to routine inquiries regarding program area matter. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Personnel Security Specialist communicate with executive staff, management, line staff, applicants, and the general public.&nbsp; He/she responds to technical questions and give personnel security related presentations and training. During the adjudication process, he/she must establish and maintain positive working relationships with individuals internal and external to the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised Warden/CEO or department head/managers on personnel policy requirements; and/or I have participated as a member of a Program Review or comparable external audit team; and/or I have provided guidance to others in resolving personnel security issues; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance or training opportunities; and/or I have counseled employees on retirement, as well as other benefit programs; and/or I have conducted institution/facility tours for outside officials; and/or I have conducted BOP Pre-Employment Interviews with applicants; and/or I have negotiated plans of action with employees to successfully adjudicate their investigations. I have answered recurring departmental questions received; and/or I have given status report of projects/assignments during departmental meetings; and/or I have resolved routine discrepancies with others; and/or I have given a presentation about employment opportunities at a job fair. I have explained general qualification and application procedures to staff and the general public; and/or I have advised supervisors of issues involving non-compliance to policy; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to field personnel on various specialty issues; and/or I have responded to non-sensitive outside inquiries; and/or I have briefed local executive staff on institution policies/procedural changes; and/or I have conducted Introduction to Correctional Techniques or New Employee Orientation training for new employees. None of the above. 5 Personnel Security Specialist write a variety of technical correspondence, to include interrogatories and justifications on suitability, and/or security determinations/employment security approvals.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills in order to effectively perform the requirements associated with this position.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared a waiver request as required by policy; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from within the organization. I have prepared performance evaluations; and/or I have written curriculum and/or lesson plans for a training class; and/or I have written classification position evaluation statements; and/or I have written justifications for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above minimum request, or age waiver; and/or I have prepared justification for employee reimbursement of training associated costs; and/or I have prepared newsletter article for internal publication; and/or I have updated supplements, standard operating procedures, and/or contingency plans; and/or I have prepared responses to audit findings. I have prepared correspondence to supervisors outlining performance appraisal requirements; and/or I have prepared training opportunity/vacancy announcements; and/or I have assisted supervisors in writing position descriptions; and/or I have written reports and informational memoranda to the supervisor; and/or I have prepared performance log entries. None of the above. 6 Personnel Security Specialist utilize current personnel security policies and procedures in the adjudication of all background investigations.&nbsp; He/she will conduct thorough review of information gathered to ensure applicants/employees are afforded &ldquo;due process&rdquo; in resolving issues and discrepancies discovered during the background investigation process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made suitability determinations/employment security approvals for moderate to low risk level positions; and/or I have conducted pre-employment interviews and made suitability determinations by applying agency developed pre-employment guidelines; and/or I have processed objections/passovers for candidates on a certificate of eligibles; and/or I have conducted pre-employment vouchering and law checks; and/or I have reviewed credit reports and evaluated derogatory information; and/or I have coordinated NCIC/NLETS program and conducted training to J-STARS users. I have conducted NCIC/NLETS checks on applicants, volunteers and contractors; and/or I have applied established personnel security guidelines to review and closeout non-issue cases; and/or I have created security files and routed for review and approval. I have applied established personnel security guidelines to review and closeout non-issue cases; and/or I have conducted follow-up interviews to clarify a response provided during a background investigation interview; and/or I have followed up with law enforcement agencies to receive required vouchering results on applicants. I have prepared request for waiver to the BOP Guidelines of Acceptability for executive staff approval; and/or I have initiated Background Investigations or Minimum Background Investigations on applicants; and/or I have coordinated and oversaw the volunteer and/or contract facility program for local division/unit/office; and/or I have requested information from applicants to resolve derogatory information, (e.g., payment documentation, letters from medical authorities related to mental health treatment, dispositions from courts). None of the above. 7 Personnel Security Specialist must have the ability to collect, organize and analyze all pertinent information in an effort to favorably resolve issues contained in a background investigation. He/she must be able to make a written recommendation for a suitability/security determination/employment security approval.&nbsp; In those instances where favorable adjudication is not possible, the Security Specialist must make a written recommendation to the Warden/CEO so they can make an employment determination.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in analysis and providing recommendations for program goals; and/or I have assisted in performing a portion of research for a project; and/or I have prepared checklists for work procedures. I have provided input and feedback to other departments on recurring issues; and/or I have collected sufficient data to be used by supervisor in updating internal controls which ensure policy compliance; and/or I have assisted in gathering, analyzing and formulating plans of action to improve a program or revise a policy; and/or I have identified a deficiency in procedures and notified supervisor for further action. I have gathered information specific to an audit deficiency, analyzed related policy and procedures to provided recommendations for supervisory consideration; and/or I have analyzed existing procedures and recommended an action plan to avoid future procedural deficiencies; and/or I have made recommendations to modify local policies and programs; and/or I have participated on a work group to research and provide recommendations for corrective action of a management issue; and/or I have independently adjudicated background investigations with minor issues; and/or I have assisted in conducting an special investigation and/or EEO investigation, which required the collection of supporting documentation and summary of findings; and/or as an EEO Counselor, I have made recommendations to informally resolve issues prior to formal complaint submission. None of the above. 8 Personnel Security Specialist must be able to interpret and apply all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively administer the security program for the Federal Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized established checklist or procedure to ensure actions taken comply with policy; and/or I have resolved routine issues in compliance with established policy/procedures; and/or I have reconciled credit card statements in compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have provided talking points on interpreting credit reports; and/or I have processed and keyed personnel actions for new and existing employees. I have keyed time and attendance records for a small workforce; and/or I have made hotel reservations based on per diem requirements; and/or I have prepared travel vouchers and assisted employees in completing travel settlement paperwork; and/or I have assisted an applicant with completing background clearance forms. I have provided information/policy interpretation of policies to internal personnel; and/or I have set employee’s pay based on applicable law; and/or I have referenced employee standard of conduct policy while reviewing background information; and/or I have assisted in updating an institution supplement to comply with changes to national policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).