Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Additional Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications Required" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the additional qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess 4 years of education above high school. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. None of the above Specialized experience incudes the following: Using verbal and written communication to process work requests and perform basic administrative tasks. Using Microsoft Office suite and other software programs to support and manage administrative activities. Grade: 06 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. Specialized experience includes the following: &nbsp; Using Microsoft office software and other computer systems to maintain data and records. Processing time and attendance using established guidelines. Grade: 07 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized expereince includes the following:&nbsp; Utilizing purchasing regulations, methods, procedures, and business practices to make micro- purchases. Utilizing automated systems to process purchases. Grade: 08 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience includes the following:&nbsp; Utilizing purchasing regulations, methods, procedures, and business practices to make purchases involving specialized and commercial items and services. Preparing and reconciling purchase requisitions in an electronic financial system. Utilizing automated systems to process purchases. 2 Which technology applications have you used to conduct market research for purchasing decisions? Answer to this question is required Internet search engines (e.g., Google, Yahoo) Small Business Administration website General Service Administration website System for Award Management (SAM) None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 I have experience utilizing the following acquisition types: Answer to this question is required Firm Fixed Price (FFP) Cost-Reimbursement Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) orders Task order Delivery order Time and Materials (T&M) Labor hour Government Wide Acquisition Contract (GWAC) orders Basic Ordering Agreement (BOA) Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) Credit card purchase None of the above 2 Do you have experience administering a company/office procurement purchase card? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have experience acquiring goods or services utilizing FAR Part 12 procedures, including market research and combined synopsis/solicitation. Answer to this question is required True 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. False 4 From the list below, identify the functions you have routinely performed using automated information systems. Answer to this question is required Establish and maintain databases Input and retrieve data Prepare charts, graphs and/or spreadsheets Prepare correspondence Prepare reports Prepare slides for presentations Receive and respond to e-mails Schedule and coordinate appointments and/or meetings using electronic calendars Track the status of actions and requests None of the above 5 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience assisting others with purchasing processes. Answer to this question is required I explained administrative processes to help others accomplish goals. I explained purchasing or financial processes to help others accomplish goals. I explained purchasing processes to help others accomplish goals in a government entity. I explained purchasing processes to help others accomplish goals in a Federal government entity. None of the above. 6 Which aspects of vendor performance do you have experience evaluating? Answer to this question is required Pricing Delivery timeliness Product/Service quality Product availability Past performance None of the above 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving purchasing problems. Answer to this question is required I have resolved problems related to administrative processes in the workplace. I have resolved simple purchasing problems (e.g., delays in promised delivery time, quantity of items purchased). I have resolved complex purchasing problems (e.g., vendor scope of work, billing errors). None of the above. 8 Which purchasing information have you reviewed? Answer to this question is required Funding availability Applicable laws (e.g., Small Business) Dollar value requirements Required sources Urgency None of the above 9 How have you resolved purchasing problems? Answer to this question is required Ordered a small quantity of emergency supplies Negotiated a no-cost change with the vendor Advised vendors of purchasing rules Disputed charges with vendors Arranged for the return of mis-delivered items None of the above 10 Select the response that best describes your experience explaining administrative procedures or regulations to others. Answer to this question is required I have not explained procedures or regulations to others. I have clarified simple questions about procedures or regulations with others (e.g., which form to use). I have provided detailed explanations or tutorials about a complicated, multi-step procedure to others (e.g., competitive bidding). I have explained the reasons for procedures or regulations to individuals who are resistant to following them. 11 For which purposes have you verbally communicated with others in the workplace? Answer to this question is required To explain purchasing rules To outline the steps in the supply ordering process To request detailed information about requested items To verify that items purchased arrived as expected To set up security screenings for deliveries To investigate the location of delivered items None of the above 12 With which individuals have you orally communicated to complete work tasks? Answer to this question is required External vendors Trades workers / Contractors Receiving personnel Internal contracting officers Construction project managers Finance personnel None of the above 13 Which alternative strategies have you used to complete purchasing tasks efficiently? Answer to this question is required Split a purchase order into smaller dollar amounts Changed payment method Set up a blanket purchase order Combined orders Amended purchase orders Written Request for Quotes (RFQs) None of the above 14 From the list below, select the software applications in which you are proficient. (Please select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required E-mail Microsoft Word Excel PowerPoint Internet MAXIMO Microsoft Access Financial Management System (FMS Momentum) Share Point None of the Above 15 Which of the following tasks have you completed while performing Time and Attendance duties? Answer to this question is required Processing Time and Attendance Reconciling errors in electronic Time and Attendance system Catch FMLA errors Conduct Leave Audits None of the above 16 Have you served as administrator of an electronic time and attendance system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by explaining policy to customers. I offered customers alternative solutions within policy limitations to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 18 Which of the following tasks regarding communication and customer service have you performed on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required Provided information in person or by phone. Communicated with individuals seeking assistance by providing general information. Exchanged information with individuals who were working on the same project/assignment Communicated with co-workers to resolve issues/problems. Communicated with supervisors and/or co-workers regarding work assignments. Communicated with others to obtain, clarify, or provide information pertaining to work-related subjects. None of the above 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.