Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Quality Assurance Manager is responsible for the local quality management system in a UNICOR factory. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated/maintained quality assurance system documentation; and/or I have provided data analysis to detect trends; and/or I have identified root causes of problems and provided recommended corrective actions; and/or I have resolved customer complaints. I have developed system documentation compliant with requirements; and/or I have received recognition of system acceptance by customer or third party audit; and/or I have conducted internal audits of the quality system and made formal recommendations for improvement. I have reviewed and updated system documentation including procedures and instructions; and/or I have coordinated and managed internal audits of the system; and/or I have incorporated approved changes to the system. None of the above. 5 Through the use of written communication (general correspondences) and the preparation of technical reports (utilizing technical data), the Quality Assurance Manager must have the ability to effectively communicate with other agencies, departments, senior management and staff, customers and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed internal e-mail/memorandums that coordinated quality concerns with others; and/or I have presented quality assurance familiarization training to personnel; and/or I have successfully completed one formal course of either written communication or technical report writing. I have developed formal memorandums/letters that informed the customer/vendor of technical data discrepancies; and/or I have developed Nonconforming Material Reports that reported defective vendor materials; and/or I have developed formal letters/e-mails to customers which requested clarification of incomplete/conflicting technical data. I have assisted in the development of internal e-mail/memorandums that coordinated quality concerns with others; and/or I have assisted in the presentation of quality assurance familiarization training to new staff; and/or I have received informal training from a member of management on either how to establish written communication, or how to write technical reports. None of the above. 6 The Quality Assurance Manager interacts with and manages resources to achieve quality and business objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with resources to resolve non-compliant third party audit issues; and/or I have worked with customers to resolve product problems based on defective vendor supplied products; and/or I have received, analyzed, and resolved customer complaints; and/or I have developed responses to quality related issues in business proposals. I have led resources to identify and recommended a solution to resolve production process problems; and/or I have worked with others and made recommendations for supervisor approval to correct product/standard requirements; and/or I have worked with the customer or vendor to recommend solutions to the supervisor for a material related problem. I have limited experience or training; and/or I have limited experience in program/project management; and/or I have successfully completed a management training course. None of the above. 7 The Quality Assurance Manager is responsible for establishing requirements, collecting and analyzing data, and recommending and incorporating improvements for a quality assurance program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have been a member of a quality improvement team; and/or I have been a member of a quality audit team; and/or I have performed duties as a quality assurance specialist for multiple factories/products for one year; and/or I have performed duties as a quality specialist for two years. I have collected and reported quality data to a member of quality assurance management; and/or I have utilized a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements; and/or I have successfully completed one course or formal training related to establishing requirements, or collecting and analyzing data, or recommending and incorporating improvements. I have assisted in collecting and reporting quality data to a member of quality assurance management; and/or I have assisted in providing input that was utilized for a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements; and/or I have received informal training related to establishing requirements, or collecting and analyzing data. None of the above. 8 The Quality Assurance Manager must be knowledgeable about the organization, product, functions and processes of an industrial operation to effectively manage its quality program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written and/or approved work instructions; and/or I have conducted internal audits; and/or I have, as a result of production problems, recommended changes to improve and/or resolve material or design problems. I have had customer interface on contract reviews; and/or I have conducted technical evaluation for contract award; and/or I have managed inmate staffing in a correctional environment; and/or I have resolved customer complaints across organization functions. I have college level training; and/or I have military training; and/or I have quality assurance experience in a non-manufacturing/services environment. None of the above. 9 The Quality Assurance Manager must effectively interact with department managers, staff, inmates and outside resources (other agencies, customers and vendors), in order to ensure successful operations within the quality environment. He/She must possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, management, Product Support Center, customers and vendors, on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in facilitating communication, concerning quality, within a manufacturing environment to resolve issues; and/or I have assisted in providing quality introduction/familiarization training; and/or I have provided limited input to quality assurance management that was utilized in establishing and maintaining a working environment with others. I have conducted departmental quality meetings; and/or I have authored e-mails with other organizations, customers and/or vendors; and/or I have provided technical quality related training to staff/inmates. I have facilitated communications concerning quality, within a manufacturing environment; and/or I have provided quality introduction/familiarization training; and/or I have assisted quality assurance management in establishing and maintaining an effective working environment with others. None of the above. 10 The Quality Assurance Manager is responsible for developing and conducting formal quality assurance training, facilitating internal and external meetings, and for developing, organizing and making formal presentations/negotiations on quality assurance or related functions and issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have formal training in speaking/presentations; and/or I have been the leader of a team or group; and/or I have teaching experience in a formal classroom. I have developed and presented quality assurance orientation training; and/or I have facilitated internal corrective and preventative action meetings; and/or I have coordinated/presented monthly quality report/presentations at monthly operations review; and/or I have resolved customer complaints; and/or I have resolved vendor discrepant material problems with vendor and purchasing. I have developed quality assurance work instructions/presentation materials; and/or I have trained quality assurance staff and employees; and/or I have coordinated/conducted monthly departmental meetings with staff and employees; and/or I have developed and delivered briefings and presentations on internal problems encountered and opportunities to gain improvement. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Quality Assurance Manager is responsible for the local quality management system in a UNICOR factory. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed required policy, procedures and objectives for a Quality Assurance program; and/or I have achieved formal registration to international standard ISO 9001:2000; and/or I have conducted a formal management review and incorporated QA system changes. I have reviewed and updated system documentation including procedures and instructions; and/or I have coordinated and managed internal audits of the system; and/or I have incorporated approved changes to the system. I have developed system documentation compliant with requirements; and/or I have received recognition of system acceptance by customer or third party audit; and/or I have conducted internal audits of the quality system and made formal recommendations for improvement. None of the above. 5 Through the use of written communication (general correspondences) and the preparation of technical reports, (utilizing technical data), the Quality Assurance Manager must have the ability to effectively communicate with: other agencies, departments, senior management and staff, customers and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed internal e-mail/memorandums that coordinated quality concerns with others; and/or I have presented quality assurance familiarization training to personnel; and/or I have successfully completed one formal course of either written communication or technical report writing. I have developed formal memorandums/letters that informed customer/vendor of technical data discrepancies; and/or I have developed Nonconforming Material Reports that reported defective vendor materials; and/or I have developed formal letters/e-mails to customers which requested clarification of incomplete/conflicting technical data. I have developed formal memos/letters/e-mails that identified and/or coordinated quality related issues between a manufacturing environment and other agencies, customers, or vendors; and/or I have developed formal First Article Test/Technical Reports that were utilized by other agencies/customers to validate conformance of manufactured items; and/or I have developed formal memos/letters that were utilized by other agencies/customers to validate the capabilities of a quality assurance program. None of the above. 6 The Quality Assurance Manager interacts with and manages resources to achieve quality and business objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led resources to identify and recommend solutions to resolve production process problems; and/or I have worked with others and made recommendation for supervisor approval to correct product/standard requirements; and/or I have worked with the customer or vendor to recommend solutions to the supervisor for a material related problem. I have worked with resources to resolve non-compliant third party audit issues; and/or I have worked with customers to resolve product problems based on defective vendor supplied product; and/or I have received, analyzed, and resolved customer complaints; and/or I have developed responses to quality related issues in business proposals. I have developed or changed agency, customer or vendor requirements which enhanced the quality of a specific product; and/or I have resolved production problems without defined specifications; and/or I have successfully negotiated conflicting production/operating requirements with customer/agency requirements. None of the above. 7 The Quality Assurance Manager is responsible for establishing requirements, collecting and analyzing data and for recommending and incorporating improvements for a quality assurance program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have been a member of a quality improvement team; and/or I have been a member of a quality audit team; and/or I have performed duties as a quality assurance specialist for multiple factories/products for one year; and/or I have performed duties as a quality specialist for two years. I have collected and reported quality data to a member of quality assurance management; and/or I have utilized a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements; and/or I have successfully completed one course or formal training related to establishing requirements, or collecting and analyzing data, or recommending and incorporating improvements. I have one year of experience managing a quality program for multiple factories/products; and/or I have one year of experience as a quality improvement team leader; and/or I have one year experience as a quality audit team leader. None of the above. 8 The Quality Assurance Manager must be knowledgeable about the organization, product, functions and processes of an industrial operation to effectively manage its quality program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied statistical process control to identify product/process problems; and/or I have developed process flow and capability studies to analyze processes; and/or I have resolved inmate employment problems in a correctional industrial environment; and/or I have resolved/corrected requirements and specification issues; and/or I have resolved vendor/customer problems and implemented corrective actions. I have written and/or approved work instructions; and/or I have conducted internal audits; and/or I have recommended changes to improve and/or resolve material or design problems, as a result of production problems. I have had customer interface on contract review; and/or I have conducted a technical evaluation for contract award; and/or I have conducted inmate staffing in a correctional environment; and/or I have resolved customer complaints across organization functions. None of the above. 9 The Quality Assurance Manager must effectively interact with managers, staff, inmates and outside resources (other agencies, customer and vendors), in order to ensure successful operations within the quality environment. He/She must possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, management, Product Support Center, customers and vendors, on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted departmental quality meetings; and/or I have authored e-mails between other organizations, customers and/or vendors; and/or I have provided technical quality related training to staff/inmates. I have facilitated communication concerning quality, within a manufacturing environment; and/or I have provided quality introduction/familiarization training; and/or I have assisted quality assurance management in establishing and maintaining an effective working environment with others. I have conducted quality committee meetings and customer/vendor negotiation meetings; and/or I have conducted pre/post contract award meetings; and/or I have instructed quality related training at the corporate/national level. None of the above. 10 The Quality Assurance Manager is responsible for developing and conducting formal quality assurance training, facilitating internal and external meetings, and for developing, organizing and making formal presentations/negotiations on quality assurance or related functions and issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed quality assurance work instructions/presentation materials; and/or I have trained quality assurance staff and employees; and/or I have coordinated/conducted monthly departmental meetings with staff and employees; and/or I have developed and delivered briefings and presentations on internal problems encountered and opportunities to gain improvement. I have developed and presented quality assurance orientation training; and/or I have facilitated internal corrective and preventative action meetings; and/or I have coordinated/presented monthly quality report/presentations at monthly operations review; and/or I have resolved customer complaints; and/or I have resolved vendor discrepant material problems with vendors and purchasing. I have coordinated/hosted conferences with vendors and/or customers or management; and/or I have formally developed and presented quality training to upper management; and/or I have provided management and/or customer briefing on the results of the quality assurance program; and/or I have developed and given a quality presentation at a national conference. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).