Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department of Education Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal government. I do not meet this requirement. 2 All grades -Choose the one answer that best describes you. Answer to this question is required I am under the age of 37 prior to the opening date of this announcement. I am currently in or have previously held a criminal investigator type position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 3 Select the investigative task(s) you have performed independently in support of administrative, criminal or civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Examines records. Recognizes, explores, and exploits leads. Conducts surveillance. Testifies before grand juries and trial juries. Executes search and arrest warrants. Trains, qualifies and carries firearms. Leads investigations. Serves subpoenas and/or court orders. None of the above. 4 Coordinates an investigation with law enforcement personnel from other organizations. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Plans and conducts criminal investigations involving conflicting evidence; difficult, complex issues, and/or sensitive issues; or multiple investigative matters. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Conducts investigations into network intrusions of systems or situations where computers or other electronic means are used as a weapon in crimes. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Serves subpoenas and/or court orders. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Applies rules of evidence, chain of custody and evidence control procedures, rules of criminal procedures, and precedent setting court decisions required for gathering electronic evidence and conducting research and analysis. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Determines the scope and direction of an investigation. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Select the types of document(s) you have written as a regular part of your experience. Answer to this question is required Investigation plans Memoranda of Interview Investigative findings Supporting documents for affidavits or subpoenas Final investigative reports None of the above 11 Do you have experience working collaboratively with internal team members and external customers to accomplish duties and responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Prepares and writes investigative reports and correspondence in a clear, logical, concise and factual format. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Please select the various types of communication with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Writing investigative reports for prosecutors Giving oral case presentations to prosecutors Trial or grand jury testimony Writing affidavits for search or arrest warrants Information or decision paper for senior leadership (e.g., to political appointees or Senior Executive Service) Formal oral presentation to senior leadership Training to a small group of individuals Formal presentation to a large (>50) group of individuals Documenting workflows Writing official policy documents None of the above 14 Do you have the specialized experience which includes the ability to plan, organize, prioritize, and conduct complex investigations, ability to communicate in writing, including preparation of complex investigative reports, and the ability to communicate orally and work effectively with individuals and/or other agencies in order to conduct investigations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Works closely with individuals and groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and make improvements. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Examines Records. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Examines case files to determine issues and sufficiency of evidence or documentation Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Completes assignments under tight deadlines requiring accurate, timely and sound products and decisions. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 19 Verifies and corroborates information related to allegations, civil and criminal matters. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 20 Do you have experience conducting computer forensics (acquisition, analysis, and reporting) in support of criminal investigations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Which of the following certifications do you possess? Answer to this question is required ISC2 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) ISFCE Certified Computer Examiner (CCE) GIAC Forensics Certification ISACIS Certified Forensic Computer Examiner None of the above 22 Which of the following best describes your training and experience conducting cellular phone forensics? Answer to this question is required Less than 32 hours of training in cellular phone forensics Completed formal, documented training in excess of 32 hours in cellular phone forensics Completed formal, documented training in excess of 32 hours in cellular phone forensics and have conducted cellular phone forensics in a non-training environment. I have no training and experience in this area. 23 Have you ever conducted a criminal student aid fraud (20 USC 1097) investigation or supported a criminal student aid fraud investigation with computer forensics? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Notices FOIA Privacy Accessibility Security Information Quality Inspector General Whitehouse.gov USA.gov Benefits.gov Regulations.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).