Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your professional background. &nbsp;If multiple statements accurately describe your background, choose the one closest to the top of the list that is still accurate. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of experience at the federal GS-13 or equivalent level, managing some component of a facility that is frequented by the public. I have at least one year of experience at the federal GS-13 or equivalent level, managing some component of a campus-like installation. None of the above statements accurately describe my background. 2 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describes your professional background. Answer to this question is required I am current in my registration as a professional engineer (PE) in the United States. I am current in my registration as an Engineer-in-Training (EIT) in the United States. I am current in my registration as a Certified Facilities Manager (CFM). I am current in my registration as a Certified Energy Manager (CEM). None of the above statements accurately describes my background. 3 I have worked on a daily basis as _______________ engineer within the past decade. Answer to this question is required a mechanical an electronics an electrical a structural an architectural another kind of something besides an 4 I have researched and applied ______________ consensus standards as part of my job.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required American National Standards Institute (ANSI) American Society of Heating Refrigeration Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Institute of Electrical & Electronic Engineers (IEEE) American Society for Testing & Materials (ASTM) None of these 5 Have you planned and established a sequence of operations to operate equipment in an industrial setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Indicate the equipment you have used to complete work within the past ten (10) years. Answer to this question is required Hydraulic motors or hydraulic power units Integrated motion control systems Programmable logic controllers (PLC) Direct digital controllers (DDC) Temperature or humidity sensors or meters Infrared cameras Survey equipment Sound level meters Other equipment not listed here None of the above equipment 7 Indicate the equipment you have designed, installed or maintained as part of your work. Answer to this question is required Physical plant equipment Chilled water systems Industrial pumps Steam stations Energy management systems Building automation systems Other equipment not listed here None of the above equipment 8 Which of the following job duties have you had? Answer to this question is required Coordinating architect-engineer (A&E) design contracts Coordinating architect-engineer (A&E) delivery orders Reviewing and approving construction contractor designs Designing or installing environmental control systems Designing or installing emergency power systems Designing or installing mechanical systems Designing or installing skylight systems None of these duties 9 Have you been responsible for advising others on matters related to engineering and design challenges? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you successfully documented the need for a sole source (noncompetitive) acquisition of $100,000 or more? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you managed total capital equipment contracts of at least $500,000 per year? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Have you been responsible for putting together construction documents, to include drawings and specifications, out for competitive bid? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I have used the following software to complete my work assignments: Answer to this question is required computer aided design (CAD) software spreadsheets project scheduling and tracking software Primavera Microsoft Project none of the above 14 Have you used a computerized maintenance management system (CMMS) on a routine basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following have you done on a daily basis in order to accomplish your work?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Consulted scale AutoCAD drawings to determine work product specifications Consulted hand-made drawings to determine work product specifications Consulted construction AutoCAD drawings or blueprints to determine placement of finished work products, or dimensions of pieces to be constructed None of these 16 Which of the following building automation systems-related tasks have you performed as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Troubleshooting electronic and pneumatic relays Calibrating multiple electronic and pneumatic devices Troubleshooting electronic and pneumatic modules Generating alarm and operator reports Troubleshooting floor level and/or building level networks Troubleshooting automated BAS programs Troubleshooting automated BAS sequences of operations None of the above 17 Select all that apply. I have proficiency in using the following kinds of software applications. &nbsp;Proficiency means I can use them on a regular basis, without assistance, to accomplish my work. Answer to this question is required Word processing (e.g., Word) Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel) Databases (e.g., records management, Access) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint) Reporting tools (e.g., for data mining, statistical analysis) Research tools (e.g., technical data libraries) Project planning software (e.g., MS Project) Computer aided design (CAD) Building information modeling (BIM) Building automation systems (BAS) Other kinds of applications not listed here None of the above 18 Have you developed and completed a formal, written return on investment (ROI) or cost/benefit analysis as part of a project justification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Select all that apply. I have been ___________ for six months or more: Answer to this question is required a Federal government contracting officer a Federal government contracting officer’s representative a Federal government contracting officer’s technical representative an owner’s construction project manager None of the above 20 Have you performed technical administration for construction or large maintenance repair contracts for at least five years in either the public or private sector? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Do you have experience developing financial management reports for senior executives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describe your work experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting formal facilities condition assessments. I have been responsible for prioritizing the deficiencies found in a formal facilities condition assessment. I have been responsible for estimating the cost to repair each deficiency found in a formal facilities condition assessment. None of these statements accurately describe my work experience. 23 Have you overseen funds designated for major repair, alteration or restoration programs for either federal agencies or large private sector firms? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Indicate those activities you have undertaken for your employer. Answer to this question is required I have read, analyzed and summarized statements of work (SOW) or performance work statements (PWS) for potential vendor bids of $250,000 or more. I have written or led bid proposal teams for an effort valued at $250,000 or more. I have developed the Technical Approach proposal for a vendor bid of $250,000 or more. I have developed the Pricing proposal for a vendor bid of $250,000 or more. None of these statements describes activities I have undertaken. 25 I have planned, programmed, budgeted and executed federal or private sector construction or maintenance and repair programs totaling, on an average annual basis: Answer to this question is required Up to $1 million Between $1 million and $5 million Between $5.1 million and $10 million Over $10 million I have not done this View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.