Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must&nbsp;hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based interventions for the management of disruptive behaviors. In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a specialized unit. He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a clinical treatment program for behaviorally disordered offenders; and/or I have conducted skills training for inmates with a history of disciplinary problems; and/or I have developed and implemented correctional management plans for disruptive inmates. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically mentally ill clients in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to perpetrators of domestic violence; and/or I have served as the primary therapist for an inpatient psychiatric unit for disruptive patients; and/or I have provided counseling services for adolescents with a history of acting out behaviors. I have administered a behavioral modification protocol for a disruptive child or adolescent; and/or I have provided group counseling for behaviorally disordered individuals; and/or I have served as a supervised co-therapist of a treatment group for seriously mentally ill individuals; and/or I have worked with perpetrators in a domestic violence prevention program. None of the above. 6 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must have expertise in developing and implementing correctional management plans. These plans should apply sound behavioral principles and appropriate use of cognitive-behavioral and/or skills training interventions. He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling behaviorally disordered offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions to inmates under the supervision of a licensed psychologist; and/or I have participated in meetings to discuss a correctional management plan; and/or I have made recommendations, to a licensed psychologist, of elements to include in a correctional management plan. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered inmates; and/or I have worked with staff and inmates to minimize disruptive behaviors in a segregation unit; and/or I have served as a treatment provider in a formal behavioral modification program. I have implemented correctional management plans within a sex offender management/treatment program; and/or I have implemented behavioral management plans for inmates housed in segregation units; and/or I have conducted behavioral analyses to assess the effectiveness of behavioral management plans; and/or I have implemented interventions contained within a behavioral management plan, such as skills training, anger management or other cognitive-behavioral interventions. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: General Ability Measure for Adults (GAMA) Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) NEO Five Factory Inventory (NEO) Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) Personality Assessment Screener (PAS) Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) (PCL-R) Psychopathy Checklist - Screening Verion (Hare) (PCL-SV) Psychological Inventory of Criminal Thinking Styles (PICTS) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV - Axis I (SCID-I) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM/IV - Axis II (SCID-II) Shipley Institute of Living (Shipley) Stanford Binet Intelligence Scales (Stanford Binet) Sexual Violence Risk (SVR-20) Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) 7 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have prepared at least 10 reports based on findings from administration of the MMPI, PAI and/or MCMI; and/or I have conducted structured clinical interviews and prepared reports based upon the findings; and/or I have completed a comprehensive test battery and prepared a report based upon the results. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill clients. None of the above. 8 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have referred patients with severe adjustment problems for crisis intervention; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have responded to a medical emergency and assisted with crisis management; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center to provide therapeutic services; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have actively participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation, which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating by calming the parties involved. I have voiced understanding of how to respond to a medical emergency; and/or I have helped plan a mock exercise of an emergency situation; and/or I have served as a crisis counselor for a suicide prevention hotline. None of the above. 9 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must have knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the management and treatment of behaviorally disordered offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for a particular behavioral disorder; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for an inmate engaging in self-harm behaviors; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have reviewed literature and written a paper on treatment techniques to manage disruptive behaviors; and/or I have prepared a presentation on the treatment of borderline personality disorder; and/or I have prepared a treatment plan for the treatment of anxiety or depression. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must&nbsp;hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based interventions for the management of disruptive behaviors. In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a specialized unit. He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a clinical treatment program for behaviorally disordered offenders; and/or I have conducted skills training for inmates with a history of disciplinary problems; and/or I have developed and implemented correctional management plans for disruptive inmates. I have served as a treatment provider within a skills-based treatment program for inmates with a history of disciplinary problems with a correctional setting; and/or I have served as the director of a treatment unit for offenders with a history of disruptive behavior; and/or I have directed the development and implementation of correctional management plans for inmates housed in a segregation unit; and/or I have served as the primary psychologist providing consultation and treatment services within a segregation unit. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically mentally ill clients in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to perpetrators of domestic violence; and/or I have served as the primary therapist for an inpatient psychiatric unit for disruptive patients; and/or I have provided counseling services for adolescents with a history of acting out behaviors. None of the above. 6 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must have expertise in developing and implementing correctional management plans. These plans should apply sound behavioral principles and appropriate use of cognitive-behavioral and/or skills training interventions. He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling behaviorally disordered offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have routinely written and presented management plans for disruptive inmates to superiors for approval to implement; and/or I have served as a member of a treatment team developing behavioral management plans for disruptive inmates or mental health patients; and/or I have developed and delivered interventions designed to modify an inmate’s behavior in a correctional facility; and/or I have overseen the development and delivery of behavioral management plans for personality disordered offenders. I have implemented correctional management plans within a sex offender management/treatment program; and/or I have implemented behavioral management plans for inmates housed in segregation units; and/or I have conducted behavioral analyses to assess the effectiveness of behavioral management plans; and/or I have implemented interventions contained within a behavioral management plan, such as skills training, anger management or other cognitive-behavioral interventions. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered inmates; and/or I have worked with staff and inmates to minimize disruptive behaviors in a segregation unit; and/or I have served as a treatment provider in a formal behavioral modification program. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: General Ability Measure for Adults (GAMA) Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) NEO Five Factory Inventory (NEO) Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) Personality Assessment Screener (PAS) Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) (PCL-R) Psychopathy Checklist - Screening Verion (Hare) (PCL-SV) Psychological Inventory of Criminal Thinking Styles (PICTS) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV - Axis I (SCID-I) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM/IV - Axis II (SCID-II) Shipley Institute of Living (Shipley) Stanford Binet Intelligence Scales (Stanford Binet) Sexual Violence Risk (SVR-20) Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) 7 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill clients. I have administered and interpreted at least three of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID-I, SCID-II, PAS, NEO, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have individually-administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill offenders routinely. None of the above. 8 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency and assisted with crisis management; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center to provide therapeutic services; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have actively participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation, which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating by calming the parties involved. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have referred patients with severe adjustment problems for crisis intervention; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 9 The Restrictive Housing Psychologist must have knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the management and treatment of behaviorally disordered offenders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for behaviorally disordered offenders; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and implemented a treatment program based upon this review. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for an inmate engaging in self-harm behaviors; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for a particular behavioral disorder; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).