Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from a regionally accredited college/university including courses in biological science, chemistry and mathematics, AND successful completion of a Medical Laboratory Scientist/Clinical Laboratory Scientist program accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. OR B. A full 4-year course of study that included 12 months in a college or hospital-based medical technology program or medical technology school approved by a recognized accrediting organization. The professional medical technology curriculum may have consisted of a 1-year post- bachelor's certificate program or the last 1 or 2 years of a 4-year program of study culminating in a bachelor's in medical technology. OR C. A Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree from an accredited college/university, including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one semester in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one semester in organic or biochemistry), one semester (one quarter) of mathematics, AND five years of full time acceptable clinical laboratory experience in Blood Banking, Chemistry, Hematology, microbiology, Immunology and Urinalysis/Body Fluids. This combination of education and experience must have provided knowledge of the theories, principles, and practices of medical technology equivalent to that provided by the full 4-year course of study described in A or B above. All science and mathematics courses must have been acceptable for credit toward meeting the requirements for a science major at an accredited college or university. Acceptable experience is responsible professional or technician experience in a hospital laboratory, health agency, industrial medical laboratory, or pharmaceutical house; or teaching, test development, or medical research program experience that provided an understanding of the methods and techniques applied in performing professional clinical laboratory work. Certification/licensure as a medical technologist (generalist) obtained through written examination by a nationally recognized credentialing agency or State licensing body is a good indication that the quality of experience is acceptable. Evaluation of Education and Experience: The major areas of clinical laboratory science are microbiology, clinical chemistry, hematology, and immunohematology (blood banking). Qualifying course work in these areas includes bacteriology, mycology, mycobacteriology, tissue culture, virology, parasitology, endocrinology, enzymology, toxicology, urinalysis, coagulation, hemostasis, cell morphology, immunology, serology, immunoserology, immuno-deficiency, hemolysis, histocompatibility, cytotechnology, and similar disciplines or areas of laboratory practice. Related fields include physiology, anatomy, molecular biology, cell biology, embryology, pathology, genetics, pharmacology, histology, cytology, nuclear medicine, epidemiology, biostatistics, infection control, physics, statistics, and similar areas of science where the work is directly related to the position to be filled. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts for verification at the time you apply. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires educational transcripts and/or other supporting documentation as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. You must provide transcripts and they&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS and&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded AND any other supporting documentation at the time you apply. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist must be experienced in all functional areas within the laboratory. Experience in testing, evaluating, identifying and controlling variables which may affect the validity of test results. He/she must be able to provide guidance to subordinates on laboratory equipment, methods and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured staff conducted assigned tasks; and/or I have personally completed all testing including micro-biological testing; and/or using established quality control, under the Levy Jennings and/or Westgard rules, I have evaluated quality control material for acceptability; and/or I have recognized equipment/quality control problem existed and contacted manufacturer's representative for assistance. I have conducted all laboratory testing including specimen collection, hematology, coagulation, immuno-hematology, serology, chemistry/special chemistry, microbiology, histology, Urinalysis, laboratory information system administrator, laboratory administration and management and reference laboratory service; and/or in the most complex and unusual occasions, I have contacted supervisors for assistance in resolution; and/or I have followed lab manuals/manufacturer’s specific instruction in order to resolve problems/quality assurance issues; and/or I have recommended budget and equipment needs to the Health Services Administrator. I have maintained workflow of the laboratory by ensuring technologists performed all tests, both routine and specialized; and/or I have coordinated procurement of supplies, capital, and non-capital equipment; and/or I have developed procedure and or policy manuals for equipment. I have recognized equipment malfunctions and followed policy/procedures for repair; and/or after staff received non-routine testing results, I have assisted staff (lab technologists) in identification of problem and resolution; and/or I have followed manufacturer's manual and resolved testing problems; and/or I have recognized, identified, isolated and resolved quality assurance problem. None of the above. 5 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist must have effective communication skills as the position requires to provide direction to subordinates, interaction with physicians, nurses, physician assistant and other internal staff in addition to staff from other facilities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a member of a team to resolve issues or concerns regarding patient care; and/or I have served on IOP/IDC or other departmental committee as an active member; and/or I have kept all lab staff fully apprised of any and all changes; and/or I have guided staff with direction in testing. I have participated in departmental meetings; and/or I have obtained information from vendors and relayed findings to supervisor on new medical equipment available for purchase; and/or I have successfully coordinated a medical escort trip with Correctional Services, Psychology Services; and/or I have provided health information to staff regarding blood borne pathogens, hand washing requirements. I have provided managers and/or Executive Staff with a formal laboratory update; and/or I have provided training to staff in a national setting regarding laboratory quality assurance issues; and/or I have provided verbal information/ explanations for reports/findings regarding lab issues. None of the above. 6 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist must be knowledgeable in Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) requirements. Additionally, federal, state and local regulations play an important role in complying with policy and procedures community standards are of concern when coordinating services between facilities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have notified superior when concerns arise; and/or I have independently handled routine questions and problems; and/or I have provided information to individuals regarding policy and procedures. I have independently handled laboratory questions and problems; and/or I have provided information to individuals regarding general laboratory policy or procedures; and/or I have assisted less experienced technologists in determining tools for collection procedures; and/or I have coordinated all contract referral services; and/or I have ensured all manuals were revised as necessary and complied with policy/Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment (CLIA), ‘88 Regulations, College of American Pathologists (CAP) and JCAHO). I have followed accrediting/regulatory federal agency requirements and standards applicable to laboratory management; and/or I have gathered information needed for audits and reviews; and/or I have researched and identified resources to solve problems independently; and/or I have gathered, analyzed and prepared information which was used in a presentation. None of the above. 7 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist must be able to perform administrative duties utilizing the most effective means of supervision. Recognized and developed the potential in subordinate staff, provided feedback and use of the Incentive Awards/other programs as examples of measures supervisors have to enhance and reward performance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed comprehensive orientation program for new staff; and/or I have supervised seven lab employees which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have motivated employees to comply and follow established policies and guidelines; and/or I have supervised groups whose work accomplished was rated superior. I have checked work in progress on a regular basis to ensure that deadlines are met; and/or I have evaluated and documented special competencies of employees in area of responsibility; and/or I have reviewed and monitored programs to make changes or improvements as needed. I have instructed in-service educational courses/programs; and/or I have designed program in order to correct deficiencies documented by evaluation studies which was proven as learning tool for staff; and/or I have served as a committee chair; and/or I have served on a community group which required extensive interaction and follow-through to achieve goals. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).