Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 In addition to meeting the basic Education requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 How do you meet the basic qualifications for this position? Answer to this question is required I have a degree in horticulture; or a related discipline of basic plant science that included at least 30 semester hours in the basic plant sciences, of which at least 16 semester hours were in horticultural subjects such as those dealing with the breeding, care, management, production, and post harvest handling of horticultural crops. I have the combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in horticulture or a related discipline of basic plant science that included course work as shown in item one above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not have the education, or a combination of education and experience listed above. 3 Which of the following settings have you managed staff in? Answer to this question is required A zoo horticulture unit. A commercial landscape company working at a zoo. A commercial landscape company. A landscape company. Other. 4 Which of the following supervisory duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Scheduling time and attendance. Work task assignments. Disciplinary actions. Performance plans and appraisals. Mentoring and coaching. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinates. I have provided supervision to subordinates. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have established deadlines for subordinates. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. I have participated as a full member of the management team and serve as the focal point for administrative management within organization served. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participate with managers in planning the work of the organization to achieve success? Answer to this question is required I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participating with managers in planning the work of the organization, but have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above 7 Which of the following statements best describe your experience with interpreting landscape plans such as blueprints and CAD drawings? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience interpreting landscape plans. I have had education or training in interpreting landscape plans, but have not performed this task on the job. I have interpreted landscape plans on the job under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedure. I have interpreted landscape plans as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in interpreting landscape plans. I have supervised performance of this task and/ or I have been consulted by others as an expert performing this task. 8 Do you have professional experience creating and managing a custom year-long landscape maintenance program involving the ordering and installation of seasonal and permanent plants, fertilization and IPM applications, organization of labor needs, and vehicle and equipment maintenance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have professional experience following a custom year-long landscape maintenance program involving the ordering and installation of seasonal and permanent plants, fertilization and IPM applications, organization of labor needs, and vehicle and equipment maintenance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following statements describe your experience as it relates to financial management responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided procedural guidance concerning the format of submission of annual estimates of funding needs. I have calculated the effects of pay raise adjustments and inflation on program budgets. I have analyzed financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budgetary actions. I have reviewed, edited and consolidated annual and multi-year budget estimates for assigned organizations/programs into a single budget request. I have prepared/edited narrative justifications and projected funding needs, ensuring that data in request is formally and accurately documented in a variety of unrelated forms/schedules/reports. I have monitored the execution of a budget with different sources and types of funding such as direct multi-year appropriations, trust funds transfers of funds from other agencies, reimbursements for services performed and other generated revenue. I have monitored obligations and expenditures of funds to ensure they are executed properly and timely. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 11 What is your experience managing contractors, employees and contract companies funded by projects sufficient to prepare project tracking documentation and status updates using project management software? (Select only one response) Answer to this question is required I have experience managing contractors, employees and contract companies funded by projects sufficient to prepare project tracking documentation and status updates using project management software. I have experience with contractors, employees, and/or contract companies to prepare project tracking documentation and status updates using project management software. I do not possess the experience described above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.