Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Developed standard operating procedure(s). Modified existing network programs. Monitored computer security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy. Inspected computer sites to ensure information security procedures were in place and were being consistently followed. Modified existing network programs. Estimated resources needed to implement network. Used existing plans to test specific application programs. Reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Determined availability of space for hardware. Recognized hardware/software problems and resolved. Used technical specification to install hardware/software. Identified problems and referred to second or third tier group for final resolution. Customer Service : Presented information regarding systems requirements and/or resolved problems encountered. Installed peripherals (i.e., printers, scanners, monitors) for end-users. Briefed staff on procedural changes. Provided training to users on new policies. Responded in writing to questions from customers seeking guidance on a routine computer related issue. Attended implementation meetings with customers. Attended design meetings with users. Performed research on user needs. Estimated resources needed to implement a network. Served as computer contact for users on routine or non-critical matters. Analyzed individual user requirements to assist in identifying appropriate IT solutions for work assignments. Coordinated efforts in the installation of computer programs. Prepared e-mail instructions to end-users informing them how to complete a specific task. Oral Communication : Contacted vendor for release of new software packages. Contacted vendor for information on retraining staff using another computer language. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Responded to information security and audit related questions. Contacted persons within the agency regarding problematic areas. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Facilitated and provided information technology training. Performed research for IT user needs. Provided support for IT end users and management. Responded to recurring IT external inquiries. Coordinated IT vendor demonstrations for end users and provided an interface with the vendor. Assisted in providing IT formal training to others on network operations, protocols and trouble shooting. Problem Solving : Provided advice and guidance on various IT specialty issues. Isolated a programming problem and referred it appropriately. Ensured corrective actions to restore IT operational service. Oversaw function tests of IT hardware/software to resolve technical problems and ensure appropriate on-site repair. Recognized and resolved IT hardware and software problems. Reviewed IT hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting on PC's and related IT equipment. Detected and corrected a network security deficiency in a workstation or server configuration. Recommended a method to make the network more efficient. Performed routine troubleshooting on PC's. Worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine IT software/hardware problems. Tested specific IT software application programs. Checked intranet system and/or areas requiring security improvements. Resolved routine IT project related issues. Coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager. Analyzed and resolved non-routine network problems. 1 In addition to meeting the competencies listed above, you must also have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Regional Systems Administrator must possess the ability to supervise and direct Information Technology (IT) staff on the scope and priorities of Information Technology (IT) assignments.&nbsp;He/she must possess the ability to explain, train and manage the Information Technology (IT) resources of a UNICOR Computer Services Department and possess the ability to clearly disseminate corporate objectives and goals that are clearly understood by Information Technology (IT) staff. The Regional Systems Administrator must evaluate work performance and identify training needs of subordinates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have developed and instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and/or increased morale; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action; and/or I have reorganized staff responsibility to enhance operations/efficiency. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have conducted performance counseling sessions with subordinate employees; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions; and/or I have delegated authority to subordinate employees to accomplish the mission of the department/unit/office. I have utilized existing documentation to train Information Technology (IT) staff; and/or I have provided supervision to Information Technology (IT) staff both orally and in writing in a variety of settings (i.e., one-on-one or in groups) in a manner understood by all with varying knowledge levels; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to subordinates on various Information Technology (IT) related issues; and/or I have directed Information Technology (IT) staff on how to respond to end-user inquiries to resolve software problems encountered. None of the above. 5 The Regional Systems Administrator must possess the ability to analyze system design needs, anticipate network hardware and equipment problems and propose potential solutions to the Information Technology (IT) staff they supervise.&nbsp;He/she must possess the ability to troubleshoot and solve problems encountered, applying alternative approaches to resolve issues and detect if problems are caused by users or hardware/software issues.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served on a computer security committee to resolve security issues affecting the organization; and/or I have diagnosed and solved system problems as a member of a team to re-design a system; and/or I have coordinated efforts to integrate and install software/hardware components during a large-scale computer upgrade; and/or I have prepared a memorandum/instructions for users as a reminder of the correct operation and/or security procedures of a system. I have coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager; and/or I have reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment; and/or I have isolated a programming problem and referred it to a Computer Programmer; and/or I have followed instructions provided by technical support personnel to correct a computer problem. I have applied a variety of debugging techniques in resolving complex software problems; and/or I have provided guidance to lower level computer programmers in debugging and testing programs; and/or I have identified program problems to vendors when purchasing software; and/or I have resolved software/hardware issues when designing a database management system; and/or I have installed and administered a Local Area Network (LAN); and/or I have independently isolated and identified computer/network problems to the component level, and then corrected the problem; and/or I have isolated, identified, and determined if problems were caused by hardware or software and successfully corrected the problems encountered. None of the above. 6 The Regional Systems Administrator must possess comprehensive knowledge of network systems in order to provide direction to Information Technology (IT) staff that maintain and manage current network setup and performance. &nbsp;He/she must be able to describe the features and functions of networking components.&nbsp;He/she must possess the knowledge and skills needed to install, configure and troubleshoot basic networking hardware, protocols and services.&nbsp;He/she must possess technical abilities to include the areas of media and topologies, protocols and standards, network implementations, and network support.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and implemented networks and/or modified existing networks; and/or I have estimated resources needed to implement networks, including standards, protocols, and equipment requirements; and/or I have analyzed statistics and recommended a method to make a network more efficient, which was subsequently adopted by management. I have installed and configured file servers for use in a large multi-user network; and/or I have acted as a consultant or lead technical specialist for the planning and implementation, including infrastructure, hardware, software, and capacity requirements for a large multi-user computer network; and/or I have performed network administrator functions (i.e., user administration, backup/recovery, file security, application launching, and software upgrades) for a large multi-user computer system. I have installed, maintained, and configured network equipment (i.e., network cards, cables, switches, hubs, and routers); and/or I have troubleshooted and diagnosed most network problems (i.e., network cards, cables, switches, hubs, and routers) and effectively implemented resolution to problems encountered; and/or I have provided technical assistance to end users on non-routine issues/problems. None of the above. 7 The Regional Systems Administrator must possess the ability to interpret and apply information security guidelines and ensure UNICOR computers managed by Information Technology (IT) staff are being maintained in compliance with governing regulations and Technical Reference Guidelines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented a security plan involving hardware and software safeguards; and/or I have recommended a department-wide information security plan and informed managers of necessary resource requirements for implementation; and/or I have designed a complete information security plan and conducted periodic audits to ensure continued compliance with governing regulations. I have detected a security deficiency in a software program and coordinated with the vendor to resolve; and/or I have controlled and maintained physical storage of media in accordance with policies and procedures; and/or I have reported serious security deficiencies to the appropriate party for corrective action; and/or I have trained end-users to correct information security deficiencies. I have updated a curriculum for training to encompass changes in information security requirements for a department/agency/organization; and/or I have designed a portion of an agency/organization information security plan; and/or I have inspected various computer work sites to ensure that information security procedures are in place and being consistently followed. None of the above. 8 The Regional Systems Administrator must have the ability to outline overall corporate objectives and estimate available resource requirements for systems in terms of equipment, manpower, and time.&nbsp;He/she must be able to coordinate and prioritize the efforts of Information Technology (IT) staff to ensure network installations and upgrades are completed as projected.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed research on user needs; and/or I have contacted vendors for information on retraining staff using another computer language; and/or I have determined availability of space for hardware. I have determined cost requirements and planned the installation of a Local Area Network (LAN); and/or I have developed a feasibility study which included software/hardware/manpower costs; and/or I have estimated the cost to implement a computer security system and followed through to installation; and/or I have as project leader of a design team, planned, coordinated, and prioritized the activities for a group. I have presented the justification and resource requirements to department managers for the modification of hardware or software plans; and/or I have recommended large-scale upgrades of computer systems; and/or I have changed previous year’s plan to fit the current year’s needs; and/or I have prepared documentation for cost/benefit study. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).