Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [55574] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you understand that: - Massena, NY is located more than 400 miles north (approximately 7 hours) of New York City on the northeast side of the state (near Vermont) and it takes less than ½ hour to drive to Canada. - Massena is located in a very rural part of New York State in St. Lawrence County (pop. 111,000), which is the largest county in New York State comprised of 32 towns, 1 city and 13 villages. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [54978] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you are aware that Massena has 4 seasons. Winter is the longest season (November through March). The average low temperature in the winter months is 15 degrees F with the average low in January (the coldest month) being 4 degrees F. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [59324] Do you currently possess a valid State issued Driver's License and a safe driving record? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [23228] This position requires travel to Canada for various events or work assignments. Are you allowed to enter Canada in accordance with Canadian law and also able to re-enter the United States? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [57335] Please review the following and select all that apply to how you became eligible to work as a WG-10, journeyman in the Industrial Equipment Mechanic (Millwright) trade. This training and/or education must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required I completed on the job training in the Industrial Equipment Mechanic (Millwright) trade. During my on-the-job training I received a State Labor Certification as a journeyman-level Industrial Equipment Mechanic (Millwright). I received a degree in the Industrial Equipment Mechanic (Millwright) trade I received a degree in the Machine trade. My training and/or education does not include any of the above. 9 [52062] Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Industrial Equipment Mechanic (Millwright) position. This information must be supported in your resume. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to perform common Industrial Equipment Mechanic tasks in order to lay out, install, align, overhaul, repair, and maintain various types of general non-production industrial machinery, equipment and systems. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Industrial Equipment Mechanic who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. I have the ability to perform the full range of Industrial Equipment Mechanic tasks in order to apply specific maintenance and repair procedures to install, maintain and repair industrial machinery and equipment. I am able to examine and troubleshoot in order to determine the extent of the repairs required, materials needed and estimate the time required to complete the repairs. I work on my own initiative under general supervision and am subject to occasional inspection. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Industrial Equipment Mechanic tasks. I am consulted upon and provide guidance on difficult situations in such areas as troubleshooting, repairing, maintaining, adjusting, and testing a wide variety of tools and industrial equipment, including those with complex prototype modifications. I am regarded as an expert working with a high degree of independence. My experience does not match any of the statements above. 10 [52063] Do you have knowledge and experience, in an industrial and/or construction environment, of rigging while utilizing cables, slings, wire rope and nylon rigging? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 [7822] Choose the one response that best describes your experience doing the work of Welder. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to plan, lay out, and complete welding work following standard procedures with direct supervision. I have the ability to plan, lay out, and complete welding work according to accepted trade practices following work orders, blueprints, building plans, sketches and building codes with minimal supervision. I have the ability to plan, lay out, and complete welding work according to accepted trade practices following work orders, blueprints, building plans, sketches and building codes with no supervision. This is a major part of my duties. I have the ability as an expert to independently plan and lay out difficult or complex welding projects, assuming responsibility for attention to completion of all details. I supervise and/or offer assistance or guidance to others on this duty. None of the above 12 [11002] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions. Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, following lock-out tag-out procedures, and confined space work operations. I have had some instruction in general safety practices for working in inclement weather, from heights, or over water and/or ice, but have had little practical experience with lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. I have used proper lifting and bending techniques while working with a partner during inclement weather and have followed proper lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. I have worked as a member of a team in a industrial or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights and/or while working near water and/or ice, in all types of weather and have followed lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. 13 [1064] Choose the description from the following that best describes your knowledge and experience in signaling. Answer to this question is required I have limited knowledge or experience signaling in a construction or marine environment. I have extensive knowledge and experience signaling in a construction or marine environment. I have no experience signaling in a construction or marine environment. 14 [20013] Select the statement that best describes your ability to appropriately assess, act and make decisions where impact was of a serious nature. Answer to this question is required I have assessed and managed emergency type situations where critical decisions were made and impact could be of a serious nature. I have assessed and managed serious situations where my decisions had impact. I have no skill or experience in this area. 15 [31708] Choose the description that accurately describes your experience operating computer/touch screen/PLC Controlled machinery that performs multiple sequenced operations (i.e. locks and dams, manufacturing/assembling, etc.). Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience. I have operated such machinery with close supervision. I have operated such machinery independently. I have operated such machinery independently and was called upon to train others and/or troubleshoot problems. 16 [52064] Select the equipment on which you have performed maintenance and repair work. Answer to this question is required Hatch Covers Malfunctioning Valves Blowers Anchor Windlasses Boat Davits Hydraulic Systems Centrifugal Pumps Reciprocating Pumps Compressors Piping Systems Tank Arrangements Winches None of the above 17 [11005] Select the equipment in which you operate with proficiency. Answer to this question is required Lathes Drill Presses Milling Machines Electric arc welding Gas welding Gas cutting Plasma cutting Pipe threading machines Soldering tools Corebore machine Cast iron cutter Snakes Waterjet Grinders Backhoe None of the above. 18 [52065] Have you ever moved equipment which weighted more than 1,000 pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 [57290] Select the statement that best describes the level of knowledge, understanding and experience you have with the operation and the maintenance of Industrial Equipment to include: lathes, drill presses, milling machines and machine tools. Answer to this question is required I have a basic understanding of the principles related to the operation and the maintenance of machine tools and industrial equipment. I have demonstrated a working knowledge of the principles related to the operation and the maintenance of machine tools and industrial equipment. I have demonstrated in-depth experience and comprehensive knowledge and the understanding of the principles related to the operation and the maintenance of machine tools and industrial equipment. None of the above. 20 [52066] Are you currently certified in any of the major welding codes? If yes, please support your answer in your resume. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 [52067] Select the statement that supports your experience and/or training utilizing equipment such as micrometers, dial indicators, vernier calipers, and various testing blocks and standard in order to repair, adjust, and test machinery and equipment. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 22 [52068] Select the statement that supports your experience and/or training making adjustments to tools and equipment as required in order to achieve desired operating parameters in accordance with specification and the requirement of users. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 23 [1066] Choose the description that best describes your ability to follow instructions. Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience following written or oral instructions at work without direct supervision. I have followed written or oral instructions to perform routine maintenance work with direct supervision. I have demonstrated the ability to independently interpret blueprints and technical manuals for routine maintenance work with minimal supervision. I have demonstrated superior ability in interpreting and explaining instructions, blueprints, new procedures, and safe operation methods to others. I have demonstrated the ability to use maintenance manuals to perform more than routine maintenance on a variety of mechanical equipment with little or no supervision. 24 [4477] Choose the description that best describes your ability to read mechanical, technical and manufacturing blueprints. Answer to this question is required I have no experience with reading or interpreting mechanical blueprints. My ability is limited to the extent that assistance is required in reading and interpreting mechanical blueprints I have the ability to read and interpret blueprints including multiview and technical service prints. I have the ability to read and interpret most blueprints and specifications as identified above, but under closer supervision when working on any new prints. I have the ability to read and interpret the most complex blueprints, such as sectional, multiview and wire frame blueprints related to tools, dies, fixtures, prototype models or complete assemblies. 25 [52069] Select the statement that supports your experience and/or training examining and troubleshooting tools to determine the extent of repairs required, materials or parts needed, and to estimate the time required to complete the repairs. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had study or training in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 26 [927] I have been fit tested for a respirator within the last 5 years. Answer to this question is required True False 27 [2518] Select the statement that best describes your safety experience. Answer to this question is required I have not attended any formal safety training programs. My previous work experience required I attend safety specific training. My previous work experience required I attend safety specific training I have experienced no work related injuries caused from using improper techniques or by not following safety directives. 28 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 28.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 28.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 28.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 28.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 28.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 28.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 28.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 28.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).