Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following statements demonstrate administrative support activities in which you have personally engaged in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the areas of time and attendance and reconciling leave and payroll problems. I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the preparation of a variety of administrative reports. I have tracked requests and ensured materials have been received. I have notified or reminded others of pending actions. I have served as administrative support providing such services as travel, incoming and outgoing mail services, ordering supplies, time and attendance, and files maintenance. I have maintained my supervisor's calendar. I have maintained my staff’s calendars. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following administrative duties do you have experience performing? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Answering telephones. Arranging and coordinating travel. Filing documents. Greeting and directing visitors in a professional manner. Maintaining and organizing office filing systems. Arranging and coordinating conferences, lectures and similar meetings. Reviewing correspondence for grammar, format and correctness. Responding to customer inquiries in a professional manner. I have education and/or training in performing these duties, but I do not have experience performing these duties. I do not have experience, education or training in this field. 4 Which of the following most closely represents your experience with planning, coordinating, and arranging meetings, conferences or workshops? Answer to this question is required I have independently planned and coordinated high-level conferences/meetings/workshops to include participation on the national level or equivalent echelons in private industry. This included advising attendees on meeting agenda; travel requirements; identifying security issues and arranging for authorized access/entry; making arrangements for conference/meeting rooms and insuring availability of required equipment. I have independently planned and coordinated high level conferences/meetings/workshops within my organization (typically with heads of offices or museums). This included making travel arrangements, ensuring proper meeting rooms were reserved, and insuring for proper levels of access. I have independently arranged meetings for my assigned office/organization. This typically involves arranging for a conference room/office and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the local organization but may have occasionally included other offices or external parties. If travel is involved, it is typically arranged for by the attendee's organization/office. I have typically arranged meetings for my office/organization based on specific instructions from my supervisor or other higher-level employee. Arrangements are typically limited to reserving an office or conference room and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the same office/organization. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in applying best practices, industry standards, and consensus standards in a property management program? Answer to this question is required I have identified and participated in the implementation of a property management best practice, industry standard, or consensus standard in a museum, research center, or university. I have identified and participated in the implementation of a property management best practice, industry standard, or consensus standard in a federal agency. I have identified and participated in the implementation of a property management best practice, industry standard, or consensus standard in an organization other than a museum research center, university, or federal agency. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. None of the above. 6 Which of the following procurement duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering a variety of goods and services Entering procurement data into an automated system Tracking delivery of goods and services Ensuring appropriate approval for procurement orders Completing a variety of procurement forms Purchasing a variety of goods and services Obtaining prices for available goods and services Conducting market surveys for available goods and services Conducting inventories and maintaining property accountability I have education and/or training in procurement, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in procurement 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management but I have not yet performed this task on the job. 8 Which of the following automated systems and processes have you used regularly used? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used automated data systems for scheduling, tracking and monitoring activities. (i.e., Outlook) I have used automated database software. (i.e., Excel) I have used desktop software packages to prepare documents and reports. (i.e., Word) I have used a travel management and petty cash system. (i.e., Concur) I have used a financial management system. (i.e., ERP) I have used a property management database. I have used a human resources management system. (i.e., HRMS, PeopleSoft) I have not used the above software programs but have used other software programs. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating travel? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) procedures and/or regulations. I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with on-line booking engines. I have advised office personnel on travel requirements and procedures. I have explained the complexities of travel requirements to office personnel and provided guidance on appropriate travel documentation. I have prepared and/or reviewed travel vouchers for compliance with current guidelines. I have prepared individual travel orders for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel orders for foreign travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for foreign travel. I have prepared invitational travel orders. I have prepared travel related documents using an automated system, such as Travel Manager. I have reconciled travel problems. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.