Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the Safety program with Executive Staff of the institution, as well as with Regional and Central Office staff on a regular basis.&nbsp; The Environmental and Safety Compliance Administrator also has frequent contact with the National Environmental &amp; Safety Compliance Branch.&nbsp; Contacts made by he/she also include vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, other federal agency personnel, local fire departments, health departments, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Safety Council, and others.&nbsp; He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmates&rsquo; attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented national training programs to other agency safety professionals; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions on behalf of the organization to local emergency response teams such as the fire department, police department; and/or I have served as a resource person during national conferences or high profile presentations. I have conducted training sessions for institution staff during scheduled meeting such as Annual Training; and/or I have provided A&O to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have presented recommendations and implementation plan to upper management as a result of inspection findings. I have trained inmates in the proper mixture and application of various chemicals such as cleaning supplies; and/or I have presented occupational safety tips at an informal gathering; and/or I have provided verbal instructions to an inmate detail regarding the recycling program, or other safety related program. None of the above. 5 The Safety Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she are responsible for independently preparing comprehensive reports, memorandums and documenting inspections and their respective corrective actions.&nbsp; He/she is also responsible for composing internal policies and procedures, and preparing correspondence related to Safety service needs and programs, such as responses to internal and external audits, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have responded to a safety related Cop-Out; and/or I have prepared justification for the purchase of updated safety apparatus. I have prepared and submitted monthly occupational safety and environmental health reports to the Warden or CEO; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information for Warden or CEO signature; and/or I have composed general memorandums to all staff regarding internal safety, environmental health, workers compensation or fire protection procedures; and/or I have participated in an Operational review or comparable external audit. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. None of the above. 6 The Safety Administrator must effectively manage a variety of resources, including, but not limited to: financial, human resources, equipment, supplies, and ensuring compliance with governing rules and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained accurate inspection records in accordance to procedures; and/or I have informed co-workers on the proper safety procedures for various work environments; and/or I have been sought out for guidance by others on safety related policy and procedures. I have gathered required documentation/information in order to perform safety inspections; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of local fire safety procedures; and/or I have coordinated a mock fire drill with all areas of the institution/facility. I have coordinated efforts with an injured employee and the Department of Labor, etc.; and/or I have ensured strict safety standards were adhered to; and/or I have assisted employees in identifying skills for improvements and provided recommendations for training; and/or I have tracked expenditures for a segment of a Safety related budget. None of the above. 7 The Safety Administrator must possess knowledge of safety program policies and procedures in order to effectively administer an occupational safety and environmental health program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed current institution or local safety policy and recommended revisions; and/or I have submitted revisions to an environmental health requirement for a UNICOR product and/or equipment used in an institution or facility; and/or I have recognized a deficiency on a work detail and took appropriate corrective action. I have examined safety violations detected during inspections and reported them appropriately; and/or I have assisted in investigating staff and inmate injuries; and/or I have assisted with organizing training programs based on changes to regulations. I have implemented corrective actions for routine safety violations; and/or I have investigated staff and inmate injuries and determined appropriate action to be taken; and/or I have applied a variety of established safety related policies and procedures. None of the above. 8 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to supervise subordinate employees and delegate authority in order to effectively direct a Safety program within a correctional facility.&nbsp; He/she is also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinates to maximize their potential for success and career development.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have assured work of others is completed within required time-frames; and/or I have provided assistance and direction to lower level employees. I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have performed official mentor duties for newly hired employees; and/or I have counseled subordinates on qualified work issues. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have overseen the preparation and delivery of work detail safety talks; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding inmate discipline. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the Safety Program with Executive Staff of the institution, as well as with Regional and Central Office staff on a regular basis. He/she also has frequent contact with the Occupational Safety &amp; Health Branch. Contacts made by the Safety Administrator also include vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, other federal agency personnel, local fire departments, health departments, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Safety Council, and others. He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmates&rsquo; attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided training/information on safety/environmental protection issues to local, state or federal safety professionals in a formal setting; and/or I have provided technical guidance and policy information; and/or I have assisted in the organization of correctional activities with officials from the U.S. Marshal’s Service; and/or I have led an institution team for ACA accreditation preparation. I have presented national training programs to other agency safety professionals; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions on behalf of the organization to local emergency response teams such as the fire department, police department; and/or I have worked as a resource person during national conferences or high profile presentations. I have conducted training sessions for institution staff during a scheduled meeting such as Annual Training; and/or I have provided A&O to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have presented recommendations and implementation plan to upper management as a result of inspection findings. None of the above. 5 The Safety Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for independently preparing comprehensive reports, memorandums and documenting inspections and their respective corrective actions. He/she is also responsible for composing internal policies and procedures, and preparing correspondence related to Safety service needs and programs, such as responses to internal and external audits, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared a report responding to OSHA compliance inspections; and/or I have maintained data and prepared and submitted required annual reports for institutional operational permits; and/or I have prepared and submitted to the appropriate authority a recommendation for code changes or interpretation of policy. I have prepared and submitted monthly occupational safety and environmental health reports to the Warden or CEO; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information for Warden or CEO signature; and/or I have composed general memorandums to all staff regarding internal safety, environmental health, workers compensation or fire protection procedures; and/or I have participated in an Operational review or comparable external audit. None of the above. 6 The Safety Administrator must effectively manage a variety of resources, including, but not limited to: financial, human resources, equipment, supplies, and ensuring compliance with governing rules and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated efforts with an injured employee and the Department of Labor, etc.; and/or I have ensured adherence to strict safety standards; and/or I have assisted employees in identifying skills for improvements and provided recommendations for training; and/or I have tracked expenditures for a segment of a Safety related budget. I have informally resolved conflicts among staff; and/or I have developed a Safety budget; and/or I have negotiated fire protection agreements with local fire departments; and/or I have tracked overall safety expenditures, reallocating funds as required. I have maintained accurate inspection records in accordance to procedures; and/or I have informed co-workers on the proper safety procedures for various work environments; and/or I have been sought out for guidance by others on safety related policy and procedures None of the above. 7 The Safety Administrator must possess knowledge of safety program policies and procedures in order to effectively administer an occupational safety and environmental health program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented corrective actions for routine safety violations; and/or I have investigates staff and inmate injuries and determined appropriate action to be taken; and/or I have applied a variety of established safety related policies and procedures. I have reviewed current institution or local safety policy and recommended revisions; and/or I have submitted revisions to an environmental health requirement for a UNICOR product and/or equipment used in an institution or facility; and/or I have recognized a deficiency on a work detail and took appropriate corrective action. I have interpreted applicable policies in conjunction with the Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHA), the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), the Office of Workers Compensation Program (OWCP) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); and/or I have organized, developed and implemented training programs for staff and inmates based on changes or revisions to regulations; and/or I have monitored permit applications and construction activities to ensure compliance with regulatory and policy requirements; and/or I have networked with other agency personnel to discuss, interpret, apply and clarify technical, complex safety regulations. None of the above. 8 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to supervise subordinate employees and delegate authority in order to effectively direct a Safety program within a correctional facility. He/she is also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinates to maximize their potential for success and career development. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prioritized workflow among available staff, making adjustments as necessary; and/or I have tracked workload of subordinates to assure completion and accuracy; and/or I have counseled subordinate on performance, providing guidance and monitoring for improvement; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have overseen the preparation and delivery of work detail safety talks; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding inmate discipline. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have assured work of others is completed within required time-frames; and/or I have provided assistance and direction to lower level employees. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).