Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 I possess the following nursing licence: Answer to this question is required I possess active, current licence as a professional registered nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. I do NOT possess an active, current licence as a professional registered nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States, BUT I have recently graduated from an approved nursing educational program within the past 12 months and my registration is pending. I do not possess a licence as a professional registered nurse or my nursing licence is not pending. 2 Choose the statement that describes your education and/or experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have completed all requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in nursing, or I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education with a concentration in a field of nursing (e.g., teaching, a clinical specialty, research, administration, etc.) or in a closely related non-nursing field directly applicable to the requirements of this position. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 9 level in the Federal service that is directly related to the duties of the position. I do NOT meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 11 level in the Federal service that is directly related to the duties of the position. I do NOT have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the Grade 11 level in the Federal service that is directly related to the duties of the position. 2 I possess the following nursing licence: Answer to this question is required I possess active, current licence as a professional registered nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. I do NOT possess an active, current licence as a professional registered nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States, BUT I have recently graduated from an approved nursing educational program within the past 12 months and my registration is pending. I do not possess a licence as a professional registered nurse or my nursing licence is not pending. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.