Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. 2 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must possess an approved Food Protection Manager Certification from a provider accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Note: Current BOP Employees in the Cook Supervisor, WS-7404, position will be considered to have met the selective factor for the position.&nbsp; Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have an approved Food Protection Manager Certification and/or I am a current BOP employee in the Cook Supervisor, WS-7404 position. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload a&nbsp;copy of their certification at the time you apply. Applicants who fail to provide proof of certification will not receive consideration for this position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. I am a BOP WS/WG employee. I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Cook Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with them, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training for new workers; and/or I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices and intermediate workers. I have led co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have helped train new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 5 Cook Supervisors must&nbsp;have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have an interest in working in a correctional institution. I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have supervised individuals on the recreation yard of a police boys club; and/or I have presented training in a correctional or rehabilitation organization. I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 6 Cook Supervisors must&nbsp;have the ability to keep things neat, clean and in order and a knowledge of handling and storage of foodstuffs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have worked as head cook in a boarding school, penal institution, hospital, military establishment or other institution requiring quantity cooking to feed a large group of persons three meals a day, seven days a week. I have supervised a cooking staff preparing meals for large groups of people requiring determinations of food display, freshness of foods, and the storage of foodstuffs. I have worked as a cook or cook helper unloading food supplies for storage. None of the above. 7 Cook Supervisors must&nbsp;have the knowledge of&nbsp;trade practices, alternative methods, tricks of the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised a cooking staff preparing meals for large groups of people requiring determinations on quantity needed and serving time (i.e., food catering service, supervisor of cafeteria-style restaurant, institutional cooking). I have worked as a cook or cook helper assisting in the preparation of meals for large groups, preparing foods for cooking, dishing up and serving prepared foods. I have supervised a large kitchen or bakery operation performing quantity cooking or taking and making determinations daily to prevent spoilage and waste. None of the above. 8 Cook Supervisors must have the ability to interpret instructions and directives and to carry out oral and written&nbsp;orders. They must also have the ability to comply with rules, regulations and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have followed general instructions, made menu changes, changed meal times, emergency changes in quantities needed or types of equipment used. I have determined own work procedures to accomplish assigned food preparation duties; and/or I have complied with instruction received. I have supervised a leader over a group of food service workers which required interpreting menus, work schedules, increasing or decreasing quantities of foodstuffs needed and servings required; and/or I have instructed workers in use of manuals and cookbooks related to quantity cooking. None of the above. 9 Cook Supervisors must have the ability to effectively use tools and equipment. They must also have the ability to make operating adjustments and minor repairs to equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have journeyman cook experience or trade school experience which involved on-the-job training or instruction in the use and operating of cooking and baking equipment. I have worked as a cook helper or baker where I assisted with minor repairs to equipment, and checked steam tables; and/or I have carried out instructions on cleaning methods for different kinds of equipment. I have been a supervisor who has directed others in the use and care of cooking and baking equipment; and/or I have selected and purchased equipment for a restaurant, large kitchen or bakery. None of the above. 10 Cook Supervisors must be knowledgeable of food and&nbsp;foodstuffs and have the ability to substitute products. They must also have the ability to distinguish freshness of foods. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have worked as a cook, helper or food service worker assigned specific tasks such as preparing all desserts, salads and breads; and/or I have assisted as a fry-cook; and/or I have helped in counting stock items for inventory. I have worked as a supervisor or leader over food service workers preparing a variety of foods or serving as a cook in a large food service operation with supervised responsibility for selecting and purchasing foodstuffs for planned menus. I have worked as a training instructor, cook or baker, giving on-the-job training in a large food service operation or performing quantity cooking requiring three meals a day, seven days a week; and/or I have ordered foods and changed menus when supplies were not received on time. None of the above. 11 Cook Supervisors must have the ability to perform duties with dexterity and safety. They must also be able to coordinate different food preparation times. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have worked as a cook, head cook or training instructor where staff were given special training in safe cooking practices. I have performed quantity cooking without evidence of on-the-job injury. I have performed cooking duties without hazard to myself or others. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).