Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of economics and U.S. financial markets.** Have knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of economics and U.S. financial markets. This includes knowledge of the history, trends, and current status of federal policy and interrelationships of economics and financial markets with financial regulation and public policy. Answer to this question is required Have knowledge of economics and U.S. financial markets including pertinent public policy issues. For example, independently conducted research related to economics and U.S. financial markets in a work setting, published research as a principal author in a peer-reviewed professional journal on economics and U.S. financial markets; completed doctoral or equivalent academic program in economics and U.S. financial markets combined with some applied experience related to a public policy issue in economics and U.S. financial markets; or equivalent experience. Have knowledge of economics and U.S. financial markets including pertinent public policy issues. For example, completed doctoral or equivalent academic program in economics and U.S. financial markets, assisted with research in economics and U.S. financial markets in a work setting, served as a contributing author to published research in a peer-reviewed professional journal on economics and U.S. financial markets, or equivalent work experience. Have knowledge of economics and U.S. financial markets. For example, completed master’s or equivalent academic program, served as a research assistant in the public or private sector, or equivalent work experience in economics and U.S. financial markets. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Analyze Public Policy Issues.** Applied knowledge of economics and U.S. financial markets to analysis of public policy issues. Conceptualized and defined public policy problems, analyzed and synthesized information and research, identified implications of data and drew appropriate conclusions, generated and assessed alternatives, and evaluated the consequences of choosing each alternative; designed and utilized pertinent quantitative and/or qualitative research and analytical methodologies and techniques; presented the big picture and interrelationships of all aspects of the public policy issue. Examples include: 1) identifying emerging issues, 2) evaluating legislative proposals, 3) evaluating budget/appropriations, 4) assessing public and private implications of government programs or regulations, 5) assessing alternative approaches to public policy issues, and 6) evaluating governmental organization and administrative procedures to accomplish program goals. Answer to this question is required Have experience conducting analysis on complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance in the public or private sector. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. The research involved the standard application of a few established quantitative and/or qualitative analytical and research methods and techniques. For example, have published graduate-level research findings and in so doing, performed at least two of the above examples in economics and U.S. financial markets. Interpreted results of research for use by audiences ranging from expert to layman. Have conducted analysis on a public policy issue related to economics and U.S. financial markets. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. For example, completed research studies or projects that involved the standard application of an established quantitative and/or qualitative analytical and research method or technique at a level equivalent to a doctoral dissertation, as part of an academic program or in a work setting. Interpreted results of research for peers. Have conducted analysis on a public policy issue related to economics and U.S. financial markets. This required knowledge of the data and their history, strengths, weaknesses, etc. For example, completed research studies or projects that involved the standard application of an established quantitative and/or qualitative analytical and research method or technique at a level equivalent to a master’s thesis, as part of an academic program or in a work setting. Interpreted results of research for peers. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to Write in a Public Policy Context.** Wrote a variety of descriptive, background, and analytical reports, memoranda, and other documents on public policy issues related to economics and U.S. financial markets. Answer to this question is required Prepared at least one comprehensive analysis of a public policy issue to the highest academic or professional standards, subject to technical review, such as a research study for a professional society or think tank, for a manager in the public or private sector, or for an academic degree. This product was related to economics and U.S. financial markets. Frequently wrote background or descriptive reports on public policy issues, such as papers for seminars or briefing materials for other professionals or managers. Wrote descriptive or background material for the purpose of clarifying situations or issues in an academic or office context, that was not disseminated to a broader audience. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Convey Analysis and Information Orally through Briefings, Consultations and Other Presentations. Conveyed analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain public policy issues related to U.S. financial markets and financial regulation, particularly securities or derivatives markets and regulation. This includes targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Occasionally presented analysis of public policy issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples include serving as a speaker or discussant on panels at seminars, professional conferences or workshops; serving as a teaching assistant in a public policy graduate program; or equivalent experience. Occasionally presented analysis of public policy issues in a structured setting to professionals in your field. Examples include discussing various policy options with peers, defending a doctoral dissertation, contributing at seminars or professional conferences, or equivalent experience. Presented public policy information or research in a structured setting to professionals in your field. Examples include presenting research to peers, defending a master’s thesis, participating in seminars or professional conferences, or equivalent experience. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).