Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience performing trades work without more than normal supervision? Experience would include performing the work needed to maintain and repair interior and exterior facilities including plumbing, painting, electrical, or welding with little or no advice. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience that would demonstrate your ability to perform the duties of the Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor without more than normal supervision. I have independently performed duties that include: planning and scheduling work and resources for multiple projects; planning, estimating, expediting and/or coordinating maintenance and repair work for facilities and equipment, providing work direction and administrative supervision to trades staff, and implementing safety practices and procedures. Under limited supervision I have performed duties that include: planning and scheduling work and resources for multiple projects; planning, estimating, expediting and/or coordinating maintenance and repair work for facilities and equipment, providing work direction and administrative supervision to trades staff, and implementing safety practices and procedures. Under general supervision I have performed duties that include: planning and scheduling work and resources for multiple projects; planning, estimating, expediting and/or coordinating maintenance and repair work for facilities and equipment, providing work direction and administrative supervision to trades staff, and implementing safety practices and procedures. Under constant supervision I have performed duties that include: planning and scheduling work and resources for multiple projects; planning, estimating, expediting and/or coordinating maintenance and repair work for facilities and equipment, providing work direction and administrative supervision to trades staff, and implementing safety practices and procedures. 3 Select the answer that best describes your experience related to the work of a Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor. I have limited or no training/experience performing this work. I have performed the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic, but have not supervised others in this work. I have performed the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic, have not supervised others in this work but have had other supervisory experience. I have had education or training as a Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor at the apprentice level, under close supervision I have independently performed the duties of a Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor under only normal supervision. I have held a position as a Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor in Federal service. 4 For what trades/specialty areas do you have experience leading, managing, or training subordinates? Electrical Plumbing HVAC Grounds Maintenance Structural Maintenance Paint and Protective Coatings Utility distribution systems Water distribution systems Welding and Metal work Heavy Equipment Carpentry None of the above 5 What best describes your supervisory experience (Check all that apply) I have never supervised trades’ personnel I have explained new work techniques to other personnel I have supervised 1-5 trades’ personnel I have supervised 1-5 trades’ personnel while personally performing trades work I have supervised more than 5 trades’ personnel I have supervised more than 5 trades’ personnel while personally performing trades work I have supervised Federal Wage Grade staff I have supervised Federal Wage Grade staff and am familiar with the personnel practices and procedures of the Federal Government I have established performance standards and completed formal performance ratings I have counseled personnel on performance issues I have counseled personnel on conduct issues I have investigated and resolved grievances I have initiated formal disciplinary actions I have identified and approved training I have scheduled and approved leave 6 What best describes your experience making work assignments (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no experience in assigning work to others. I have assigned work to staff and provided technical direction and help on difficult work processes. I have observed work in progress to anticipate and resolve problems I have made work assignments based on staff experience and capabilities I have coordinated work assignments to meet externally imposed schedules or maintain progress I have created a culture of safety for staff by ensuring and all organization safety policies and procedures are understood, implemented, and observed; and that all required safety equipment is utilized. I have inspected completed work for quality and meeting work order requirements. 7 What best describes your experience in planning work assignments (Check all that apply) I have no experience in planning work schedules. I have planned daily, weekly, and monthly work schedules and sequence of operations for assigned positions. I have established deadlines and priorities on the basis of general work schedules, methods, and policies established by senior management. I have established deadlines and priorities based on the availability of resources such as equipment, materials, and tools. I have established deadlines and priorities based on best practices in preventative maintenance. I have determined equipment, supplies, and maintenance routines required. I have ensured that material is ordered and delivered to work sites so as not to delay work. I have redirected resources to overcome problems such as equipment failure, material delays, unplanned absences, or unexpected high priority work. I have adjusted plans, assignments, and methods as necessary to accomplish the work safely. I have coordinated work with senior or management staff, or staff of other organizations, in order to prevent schedule and resources conflicts. 8 Please describe your experience in the area of job site safety (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had no job related safety training I have had training in safe practices related to construction trades’ work I have had training related to overall safe practices for work at a remote site I have had training in the handling and disposal of hazardous materials I have knowledge of Right to Know requirements I have had training in basic first aid procedures I have had training in advanced first aid procedures I have served as a member of a job site safety group that had responsibility for implementing an organizations safety policies and procedures I have had responsibility for training others in safe work practices I have had overall responsibility for implementing safety policies and procedures at a job site. 9 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interpreting directives, policies, or instructions and conveying interpretations to subordinate employees in the form of work direction? Answer to this question is required I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision I have performed this task under normal supervision I have performed this task independently, as a routine part of my job requirements I have not performed this task as a job assignment but I have been frequently consulted by others in their performance of this task I performed this task as a supervisor I have never performed this task 10 In which of the following types of building environments do you have the most experience performing maintenance/repair services? Residential Light commercial Large commercial Industrial Laboratory or other specialized construction Remote site infrastructure including roads, distributed power, and water capture and storage systems 11 Please rank your plumbing skills No Experience I have performed tasks under extensive direct supervision I have performed tasks with limited supervision I have journeyman level experience in this trade 12 Please rank your carpentry skills No Experience I have performed tasks under extensive direct supervision I have performed tasks with limited supervision I have journeyman level experience in this trade 13 Please rank your electrical skills No Experience I have performed tasks under extensive direct supervision I have performed tasks with limited supervision I have journeyman level experience in this trade 14 Please rank your painting skills (commercial level) No Experience I have performed tasks under extensive direct supervision I have performed tasks with limited supervision I have journeyman level experience in this trade 15 Please rank your roofing skills No Experience I have performed tasks under extensive direct supervision I have performed tasks with limited supervision I have journeyman level experience in this trade 16 Please rank your welding skills No Experience I have performed tasks under extensive direct supervision I have performed tasks with limited supervision I have journeyman level experience in this trade 17 Which of the following best describes your highest level of building trades knowledge and experience? Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program(s) Journeyman level On the job training (1 to 5 years) On the job training (more than 5 years) Military service training None of the above 18 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing effective and feasible work plans, schedules and completion dates? I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision. I have performed this task under normal supervision. I have performed this task independently, as a routine part of my job requirements. I have not performed this task as a job assignment but I have been frequently consulted by others in their performance of this task. I performed this task as a supervisor. I have never performed this task. 19 Which of the following statements best describes your experience evaluating, planning and purchasing tools and materials to use on specific jobs? I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision. I have performed this task under normal supervision. I have performed this task independently, as a routine part of my job requirements. I have not performed this task as a job assignment but I have been frequently consulted by others in their performance of this task. I performed this task as a supervisor. I have never performed this task. 20 What types of facility systems have you independently maintained? Building plumbing systems Water distribution systems (e.g. tanks, pumps, piping etc.) Building electrical systems Back-up electrical systems (e.g. emergency generators etc.) Fire suppression systems Emergency alarm/notification systems HVAC systems 21 Have you estimated labor and material resources and costs for projects? Yes No 22 Describe your experience reading and interpreting blueprints, specifications, and or technical manuals No experience I have used blueprints, sketches, and technical manuals with extensive assistance from a supervisor or technical expert. I have intermediate level skill using used blueprints, sketches, and technical manuals to understand the functions of parts, equipment, or systems. I have routinely used blueprints, sketches, and technical manuals on the job in order to understand the functions of parts, equipment or systems, to plan and lay out work, and to aid in diagnosing malfunctions or making repairs. 23 Which reference materials have you read and interpreted to maintain building systems? Schematics, diagrams or technical drawings Charts Manufacturers’ equipment manuals Blueprints Data Plates Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) Building automation logic None of the above 24 Which of the following best describes your experience maintaining heavy equipment? I have no knowledge or experience with heavy equipment. I have basic knowledge and have assisted others on basic heavy equipment maintenance tasks. I have intermediate knowledge and some experience maintaining heavy equipment independently. I have extensive knowledge and experience maintaining heavy equipment as a regular part of the job. 25 Do you have a valid Arizona or other state's driver's license? Yes No 26 Are you able to operate two and four wheel drive passenger cars and light trucks on a narrow, unpaved, mountain road? Yes No 27 Indicate your experience operating a front-end loader No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 28 Indicate your experience operating a snow plow truck No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 29 Indicate your experience operating a backhoe No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 30 Indicate your experience operating a crane No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 31 Indicate your experience operating a road grader No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 32 Indicate your experience operating a bobcat No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 33 Indicate your experience operating a semi truck Answer to this question is required No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 34 Indicate your experience operating a water truck No experience Some experience Extensive experience as a routine job assignment 35 Please indicate your experience plowing snow I have no snow plowing experience. I have experience plowing snow on private property in a small truck (e.g. pickup with plow attachment). I have experience plowing snow on public roads in a small truck (e.g. pickup with plow attachment). I have experience plowing snow on public roads using heavy equipment. I have experience plowing snow on unpaved roads using heavy equipment. I have experience plowing snow on unpaved mountainous roads using heavy equipment. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.