Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 To qualify at the GS-09 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-07 grade level. Select the one answer that best describes your highest level of experience or education. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-07 grade level as described in the vacancy announcement OR Master's or equivalent graduate degree OR two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. if related. I do not meet the specialized experience. 2 [53730] Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of skill in gathering and analyzing data in support of criminal investigative activities. Answer to this question is required I have experience independently conducting analyses and performing research techniques to identify and structure patterns of illegal activity to make recommendations that advance investigations or audits. I have experience independently performing analyses using varied sources to support investigative/audit activities. I have experience performing analyses using various sources to assist in the support of work assignments. I have experience collecting data and performing analyses using various sources to complete work assignments. I do not possess the experience described above. 3 Do you have experience conducting joint investigations or consulting/coordinating federal law enforcement agencies? Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [53042] Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill demonstrating external awareness (i.e. identifying and understanding economic, political, and social trends that affect the organizations) in conducting investigations: Answer to this question is required I have experience developing relationships with internal/external groups to complete work assignments. I have experience researching and analyzing trends affecting public sector organizations, but have not developed relationships with internal/external groups. I have completed coursework in Public Policy, Criminal Justice, Law or Public Administration, but have not researched/analyze trends affecting public sector organizations. I have experience gathering information pertaining to the Federal Government but have not completed coursework in Public Policy, Law, Criminal Justice, or Public Administration. I do not possess the experience/training described above. 5 [53397] Select all choices that best describe your ability to present factual information in a concise, logical, and objective manner. Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated experience in making presentations to or briefing operational level officials in Federal, State, or local agencies. I have demonstrated experience in writing memoranda, and other correspondence directed to departmental officials and State and/or Federal prosecutors. I have demonstrated experience in writing routine reports of investigation, action leads, and case fact memoranda. I have experience preparing significant case reports for supervisors and distribution throughout the organization. I have demonstrated experience making presentations to prosecuting attorneys. I have demonstrated experience in briefing management and supervisory personnel. I have experience addressing groups at public meetings or as an instructor in a formal course. I have demonstrated experience interviewing a variety of individuals concerning non-criminal matters including developing interoffice memoranda and reports of interviews. I have experience preparing and providing case progress reports to first line supervisors. None of the above. 6 [53441] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to work in a team environment and maintain an effective working relationship with others? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 7 [55350] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to prepare written reports of investigative findings, presentations, and briefings in a clear, concise and well organized manner? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am often consulted by other workers to lead and/or assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 8 Select all of the written products below that you have experience writing. Answer to this question is required Memoranda of Investigative Activities. Reports of Investigation. Investigative work plans. Administrative reports to management. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations. Briefing papers for agency officials. Policy and procedures and/or recommendations for administrative action. Applications or draft information for Inspector General Subpoenas. Project/Program planning proposals. Training presentations or other briefing material. None of the above. 9 Select all of the verbal communication activities that you have routinely performed in your employment. Answer to this question is required Conducting criminal/investigative interviews. Presenting investigative findings to federal, state or local prosecutors. Presenting investigative status and other investigative matters to agency officials. Presenting information persuasively to defend positions. Providing oral training presentations or briefings. Providing operational briefings to other investigative team members. Successfully negotiating for the acceptance of new policies and/or procedures. Testify in court and/or administrative hearings. None of the above. Grade: 11 1 [53467] Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience related to the minimum basic requirement for the GS-11 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience includes:determining the depth and scope of the investigation (subject/targets); preparing cases for presentation to prosecutors or management officials, developing investigative leads and analyzing evidence collected to build criminal or administrative cases. I have completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. if related, in a field related to this position (e.g. Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement Administration, Criminology). I have a percentage of the required specialized experience and a percentage of the required graduate level education such that, when the percentages of the required graduate education and specialized experience are added together, they equal 100%. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 2 [53448] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to identify areas of potential fraud, waste and abuse against a government program to determine or develop a fraud investigation? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 3 [52914] Select all choices that best describes your ability to present factual information in a clear and concise manner. Answer to this question is required I have experience presenting factual information to government and/or corporate personnel and interviewing witnesses involved in investigations including assisting with the preparation of and/or testimony in criminal, civil, or administrative hearings. I have experience in writing routine reports of investigations, memoranda documenting investigative activity, and/or preparing investigative lead referrals. I have experience addressing groups at public meetings or as an instructor in a formal course. I have experience interviewing a variety of individuals concerning criminal or non-criminal matters and preparing reports of those interviews. I have experience providing case progress reports to supervisors. I have experience presenting the status and facts of interviews to supervisor and/or coworkers. I have limited experience conducting interviews or writing reports but have extensive training in these areas. I have an undergraduate degree in a field related to writing. I have taken training courses in public speaking. I do not meet the experience requirements described. 4 [53435] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to conduct interviews of subjects, witnesses, victims? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 5 [53436] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to prepare written reports of investigative findings, presentations, and briefings in a clear, concise and well organized manner? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 6 [53439] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to encourage and facilitate cooperation from others in order to obtain information? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 7 [53447] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to collect, evaluate, protect and preserve physical, documentary and sensitive evidence? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 8 [53442] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to present information to supervisor, peers, managers, and senior level officials in an easily understood manner explaining conclusion, recommendations and/or results? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 9 [53045] Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of skill in gathering and analyzing data in support of criminal investigative activities. Answer to this question is required I have experience independently conducting analyses and performing research techniques to identify and structure patterns of illegal activity to make recommendations that advance investigations. I have experience independently performing analyses using varied sources to support investigative activities. I have experience performing analyses using various sources to assist in the support of investigations. I have experience collecting data and performing analyses using various sources to complete work assignments. I do not possess the experience described above. Grade: 12 1 [53468] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience includes: securing facts and developing evidence, maintaining liaison with other law enforcement bodies; conducting investigative interviews, record searches and obtaining sworn statements, and preparing written reports of investigative summaries I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [53444] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to perform complex fraud investigations, to include obtaining information, gathering evidence, or verifying facts? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 3 [53438] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to plan, conduct and coordinate complex criminal, civil and administrative investigations relating to alleged or suspected violations of the federal laws, regulations or rules? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 4 [53435] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to conduct interviews of subjects, witnesses, victims? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 5 Select the law enforcement activities below with which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Making arrests. Conducting physical surveillance. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints. Participating in the execution of search warrants. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas. Seizing and storing evidence. Presenting investigative results to AUSAs for prosecutory determination. Conducting employee misconduct investigations. Conducting bribery investigations. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings. None of the above. 6 [53436] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to prepare written reports of investigative findings, presentations, and briefings in a clear, concise and well organized manner? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 7 Select all of the following types of affidavits that you have written and submitted, sworn, and had approved, that resulted in arrests, indictments or penalties. Answer to this question is required Search warrant affidavits. Criminal complaint affidavits. Arrest warrant affidavits. None of the above. 8 Select all of the written products below that you have experience writing. Answer to this question is required Memoranda of Investigative Activities. Reports of Investigation. Investigative work plans. Administrative reports to management. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations. Responses to Congressional or other interagency inquiries. Briefing papers for senior officials. Speeches or Congressional testimony. Budget proposals or justifications. Press releases or public bulletins. Employee position descriptions. Policy and procedures. Applications for approval for consensual monitoring. Applications for Inspector General subpoenas. Project/Program planning proposals. Training presentations and other training material. Strategic Plans. None of the above. 9 [53442] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to present information to supervisor, peers, managers, and senior level officials in an easily understood manner explaining conclusion, recommendations and/or results? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 10 [53437] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to apply Federal Rules of Evidence, and accepted criminal investigations and law enforcement principles, techniques, methods and procedures? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 11 [53441] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to work in a team environment and maintain an effective working relationship with others? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 12 [53446] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to partner with law enforcement agencies and law professionals to facilitate the detection or prosecution of fraud cases? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 13 [53447] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to collect, evaluate, protect and preserve physical, documentary and sensitive evidence? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 14 [53439] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to encourage and facilitate cooperation from others in order to obtain information? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 15 Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed financial facts, prepared databases, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems based on the data, and identified solutions. Answer to this question is required I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 [53390] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience includes: securing facts and developing evidence, maintaining liaison with other law enforcement bodies, conducting investigative interviews, record searches and obtaining sworn statements, and preparing written reports of investigative summaries. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [53444] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to perform complex fraud investigations, to include obtaining information, gathering evidence, or verifying facts? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 3 [53438] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to plan, conduct and coordinate complex criminal, civil and administrative investigations relating to alleged or suspected violations of the federal laws, regulations or rules? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 4 [53435] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to conduct interviews of subjects, witnesses, victims? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 5 Select the law enforcement activities below with which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Making arrests. Conducting physical surveillance. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints. Participating in the execution of search warrants. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas. Seizing and storing evidence. Presenting investigative results to AUSAs for prosecutory determination. Conducting employee misconduct investigations. Conducting bribery investigations. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings. None of the above. 6 [53436] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to prepare written reports of investigative findings, presentations, and briefings in a clear, concise and well organized manner? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 7 Select all of the following types of affidavits that you have written and submitted, sworn, and had approved, that resulted in arrests, indictments or penalties. Answer to this question is required Search warrant affidavits. Criminal complaint affidavits. Arrest warrant affidavits. None of the above. 8 Select all of the written products below that you have experience writing. Answer to this question is required Memoranda of Investigative Activities. Reports of Investigation. Investigative work plans. Administrative reports to management. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations. Responses to Congressional or other interagency inquiries. Briefing papers for senior officials. Speeches or Congressional testimony. Budget proposals or justifications. Press releases or public bulletins. Employee position descriptions. Policy and procedures. Applications for approval for consensual monitoring. Applications for Inspector General subpoenas. Project/Program planning proposals. Training presentations and other training material. Strategic Plans. None of the above. 9 [53442] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to present information to supervisor, peers, managers, and senior level officials in an easily understood manner explaining conclusion, recommendations and/or results? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 10 [53437] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to apply Federal Rules of Evidence, and accepted criminal investigations and law enforcement principles, techniques, methods and procedures? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 11 [53441] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to work in a team environment and maintain an effective working relationship with others? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 12 [53446] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to partner with law enforcement agencies and law professionals to facilitate the detection or prosecution of fraud cases? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 13 [53447] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to collect, evaluate, protect and preserve physical, documentary and sensitive evidence? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 14 [53439] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to encourage and facilitate cooperation from others in order to obtain information? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 15 Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed financial facts, prepared databases, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems based on the data, and identified solutions. Answer to this question is required I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 [16672] An applicant may not have reached his/her 37th birthday at the time of initial appointment to a Federal Law Enforcement covered position within the US Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General; select the answer choice that describes your age: Answer to this question is required I have not yet reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to 30 days from the closing date of this announcement. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have previous service credible under Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) law enforcement provisions sufficient to enable me to retire at age 57 with 20 years of creditable service. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position. I am not eligible to apply for this position. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position; however, I am a preference eligible and can apply for this position. 2 Please indicate which basic criminal investigator training program you have completed successfully. Answer to this question is required I have completed basic criminal investigator training through either the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, FBI Academy, DEA Academy, AFOSI Academy, NIS/NCIS Academy, Postal Inspection Service, or the Army Criminal Investigations course. I have completed basic criminal investigator training program through another federal agency, the state, city, or private sector organization. I have not completed a basic criminal investigator training program. 3 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).