Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Please indicate which of the following type(s) of activities / tasks related to the congressional budget process you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Engaged in strategic or tactical process for unit budget development and submission. Under direction, I have coordinated or jointly led team(s) in budget development and planning for a business unit or office. Solely responsible for coordinating planning, preparation and submission of unit / office budget and justification. Prepared, presented and defended unit / office budget submission to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congress. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units / organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic / tactical decisions. Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. None of the above. 5 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of knowledge of computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training with computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. I have completed formal education or training in computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning and (or) others have consulted me as an expert. 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 7 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared issue and/or briefing papers to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, adherence to requirements, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 8 Which of the following choices BEST describes your skills in providing strategic direction and counsel required to manage external affairs operations for a large organization? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of work experience managing financial resources? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 10 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience with using SharePoint as a budget tool for communicating information regarding an organization's budget execution processes? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 11 Which of the following choices best describes your level of experience in managing an audit program? Answer to this question is required I have successfully planned and implemented an annual, internal audit progam, including all ISO 9001:2008 requirements and internal procedures. I have planned an annual audit schedule, but have not yet implemented it. I have participated in an audit program as an auditor. I have an understanding of how an internal audit schedule works. As a process owner I have been audited. I have no education and/or experience in performing this task. 12 Which of the following BEST describes your experience training personnel both individually and in groups on International Standardization Organization (ISO 9001) principles and requirements? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker, to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no education, training, or experience performing this task. 13 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures Application and compliance with policies and guidance Disclosure reporting Executive summary Reconciliations Audits Manual disbursing Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above 14 Please identify those customer service skills you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Diplomacy Research capabilities Analysis capabilities Planning Monitoring response Prioritization Collaboration Accommodation Resolving Conflict Negotiating Compromise Persuasiveness Identifying the need / requirement Establishing parameters Responsiveness None of the above 15 From the following list, identify your experience with preparing an analysis of trends of non-conforming product: Answer to this question is required I have wide-ranging experience filtering data and preparing reports and findings to present at Management Review meetings. I have reviewed data and given feedback at Management Review meetings. I have supplied metric reports for others to trend the data. As an employee I have identified non-conformities and reported them to my Supervisor. I have no experience reporting non-conformities. 16 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of expertise responding to Corrective and/or Preventive Actions: Answer to this question is required I have responded to a CAR or a PAR (or CPAR) issued by a Registrar and those issued internally, with a root cause analysis, corrective action, and timeline for implementation. I have responded to a CAR or a PAR (or CPAR) issued by a Registrar with a root cause analysis, corrective action, and timeline for implementation. I have responded to an internal CAR or a PAR (or CPAR) with a root cause analysis, corrective action, and timeline for implementation. I have been tasked by my Supervisor with an action plan to correct or prevent a non-conformity. I have no experience identifying corrective or preventive actions. 17 Please select the response that best describes your ability to develop and apply financial management techniques. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training developing and applying financial management techniques. I have completed formal education or training in financial management techniques, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and applied financial management techniques on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have developed and applied financial management techniques as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Developing and applying financial management techniques has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in developing and applying financial management techniques and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 18 Which of the following best reflect your ability to perform quantitative analysis and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have formal undergraduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in a work situation. I have formal graduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in work situations. I have formal education/ training and work experience in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Performing quantitative analysis and evaluation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.