Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMETNS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Regional Human Resource Administrator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she regularly meets with regional and Central Office human resource chiefs and other human resource administrators to interpret and resolve issues affecting the Bureau. He/she participates in arbitrations and labor management negotiations and bears the responsibility of defending human resources practices of the region and bureau as a whole during negotiations, arbitrations, and court proceeding.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a work group which included members of the executive staff in other agencies; and/or I have assisted in representing the agency/organization at a briefing with a member of Congress or their staff; and/or I have explained new or revised HR programs to top management and their subsequent impact; and/or I have successfully negotiated with Union officials to resolve an issue of longstanding debate; and/or I have given formal presentations to the Executive Staff/top management of an agency/organization; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding public affairs issues; conveyed new agency restructuring initiatives at management meetings and responded to controversial concerns over potential displacement. I have represented agency at a community meeting; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies personnel; and/or I have served in leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have served on national labor negotiation team; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process as a mediator; and/or I have served as the local expert in recommending to management possible disciplinary options in specific cases; and/or I have advised top management staff on complex HR issues such as staffing for hard to fill positions or systematic position management; and/or I have testified on the agency’s behalf during legal/arbitration proceedings. I have taught national training courses on HR programs; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures; and/or I have trained supervisors on preparing position descriptions. None of the above. 5 The Regional Human Resource Administrator is responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, and briefings for national level groups, etc.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, OPM Officials, agency executives, managers, line staff and the general public.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written documentation which justified agency action during a third party hearing; and/or I have written agency/institution/organization response to an Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) appeal, grievance action, or bargaining issues; and/or I have independently prepared written proposals for negotiations; and/or I have independently written/ prepared technical documentation and correspondence which were utilized without change; and/or I have written materials used in management or human resource training courses; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments; and/or I have prepared statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have documented findings as a participant of a Program Review, or comparable external audit; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document. I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to program review/comparable external audit evaluators concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared position paper justifying decision made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural guide explaining laws, regulations, etc., in laymen terms; and/or I have authored an article on a human resource issue for a national publication; and/or I have prepared strategic plans which contributed to his/her agency guidelines; and/or I have authored response reports to GAO, DOJ, and OMB. I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have revised local policy; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report; and/or I have reviewed and revised crediting plans for unique positions; and/or I have written Congressional responses for management on local issues; and/or I have submitted justifications for Bureau-wide awards; and/or I have drafted proposal and decision letters for adverse/disciplinary action. None of the above. 6 The Regional Human Resource Administrator is responsible for directing, reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans and programs relative to program areas.&nbsp; The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies with precision and confidence.&nbsp; He/she is required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have participated on agency workgroup designed to analyze human resource trends and development efficient, practical solutions, critiquing draft program statements; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have used various automated systems to pull statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. I have analyzed and evaluated current operating procedures and recommended methods to improve productivity; and/or I have updated policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have submitted funding request based on analysis and projected resource needs; and/or I have served as a troubleshooter/liaison in dealing with management problems; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved. None of the above. 7 The Regional Human Resource Administrator must manage and advise on the following programs: local labor management negotiations, disciplinary and grievance procedures, staffing, interviewing, pre-employment processing, workforce projections, career counseling, performance evaluation/incentive awards, time and attendance, leave administration, and employee compensation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured the active recruitment and placement of women and minorities in locations having relative low cultural diversity; and/or I have identified ways that can assist in solving problems of morale, excessive turnover, low production and under-utilization of employees’ skills and abilities; and/or I have advised management on complex staff accommodation/disability issues. I have participated in an agency/component wide workgroup to develop a new HR program such as performance standards, automated applicant process; and/or I have restructured work flow operations which resulted in position/supervisory ratio reductions; and/or I have identified and made modifications to human resource manager trainee plan to overcome skill gaps. I have provided guidance on staffing and placement procedures; and/or I have adapted guidelines, instructional methods, course materials for use in existing personnel programs; and/or I have conducted formal meetings with managers on performance appraisals or Labor Management Relations; and/or I have conducted personnel operational/program reviews; and/or I have worked with a supervisor to address evaluation concerns to improve employee performance. None of the above. 8 The Regional Human Resource Administrator must provide information on a wide range of labor management issues which require them to be knowledgeable on DOJ/BOP regulations as well as case law.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the Master Agreement to determine issues related to a grievance; and/or I have utilized case law when preparing documents for a hearing; and/or I have reviewed agency regulations before responding to an inquiry about performance appraisals; and/or I have utilized Title 5/CFR to formulate a response to a request for information; and/or I have advised managers on counseling or reprimanding an employee; and/or I have researched legal precedents regarding disciplinary or grievance actions. I have investigated and advised management on an employee grievance and prepared a response; and/or I have advised executive staff on preparation of settlement agreements; and/or I have provided advice to management regarding arbitration; and/or I have advised management on possible corrective actions regarding staff discipline, leave abuse or performance issues; and/or I have participated in alternative dispute or other informal resolution to resolve an MSPB, ULP or arbitration issue; and/or I have facilitated negotiations on a local supplemental contract. I have provided expert agency/organization testimony at a third party hearing over a national issue such as uniform policy, general working conditions or topic of a negotiability impasse; and/or I have informally resolved issues with top managers to the satisfaction of national Union representatives; and/or I have participated in the negotiation of a national policy or contract. None of the above. 9 The Regional Human Resource Administrator is involved in the development, planning and administration of the human resource programs for the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive knowledge of the policies and procedures regulating these areas in order to effectively manage, develop and implement program direction. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured the active recruitment/placement of women/minorities in strategic locations where there are less diverse populations; and/or I have briefed top management on major human resource initiatives; and/or I have researched and interpreted technical policies; and/or I have drafted a local institutional supplement on an human resource topic; and/or I have provided input for a management assessment to determine needed changes to policy; and/or I have provided response or served as a representative during a MSPB or EEO case. I have commented on draft agency and/or OPM policy being considered for implementation; and/or I have recommended detailed guidelines on discretionary issues relating to pay, benefits, job qualifications, etc.; and/or I have implemented operational changes based on a review of national audit findings, problematic trends, or barriers. I have made qualification determinations for technical positions; and/or I have requested appointments above the minimum rate; and/or I have conducted pre-employment interviews and made suitability determinations; and/or I have reviewed erroneous appointment to determine best course of action to regularize appointment processed; and/ or I have advised employees on various appointment schedules; and/or I have researched and provided documentation for an EEO case. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).