Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and/or education. Select the response that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please make sure your resume supports the response you select. Answer to this question is required I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-07 in the Federal service assisting in managing an archive of historical materials to include accessioning, arrangement, description, disposition, preservation, and research. I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree OR two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in the following major fields of study: archival science, history, American civilization, economics, political science, public administration, or government. I possess a combination of post baccalaureate education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not possess the education or experience described above. 2 Choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education with conducting archival projects according to archival principles? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 3 Choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education with preserving archival collections? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 4 Choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education in converting archival collections to digital and other formats? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 5 Choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education handling research and reference information requests relevant to an archive or library. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 6 Choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education in utilizing archival collection and finding aids to provide reference services and research assistance.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 7 Choose the answer that best describes your experience in records management and disposition. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 8 Choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education&nbsp;in the transfer of archive records. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 9 Have you been independently responsible for applying access policies and procedures to safeguard the security of records in an archive? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Composing complex reference and research correspondence. Writing reports or findings regarding analysis reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. None of the above 12 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, clarification or direction on policies and procedures. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. None of the above 13 Are you able to climb ladders up to 14 feet above the floor and lift&nbsp;boxes up to fifty (50) pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Are you able to work long periods in archival environments that range between 50-70 degrees Fahrenheit (50&deg;-70&deg; F)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.