Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Cite-Check, Format, and Edit Legal Materials. ** Ability to cite-check, Bluebook, proofread, and edit legal products (e.g., reports, presentations, outreach communications, testimony, essays published online) with textual citations and footnotes, including: cases, constitutions, statutes, legislative materials (e.g., bills, hearings, committee prints, debates) administrative and executive materials (e.g., rules, regulations, administrative adjudications) books, reports, periodicals, and internet authorities. Including: 1) cite-checking to ensure propositions are accurate; 2) proofreading, capitalization, punctuation, grammar, word usage, formatting; and 3) communicating with authors and supervisors. This also includes applying editorial style and citation rules from the Bluebook and other sources, ensuring consistency across publications. Answer to this question is required As a paralegal or equivalent, had the primary job responsibility of reviewing and editing legal materials for quality assurance by performing ALL of the above activities. As a paralegal or equivalent, routinely assisted with the review and editing of legal materials for quality assurance by performing ALL of the above activities. As a paralegal or equivalent, assisted with the review and editing of legal materials for quality assurance by performing ALL of the above activities. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to conduct legal research. ** Conducted legal research pertinent to American public law utilizing traditional and electronic legal resources including, but not limited to: Westlaw, Lexis, HeinOnline, U.S. Code, and ProQuest Congressional. This included identifying and gathering authoritative legal information, including legislative histories, as well as troubleshooting legal research databases. Answer to this question is required As a paralegal or equivalent, frequently used standard legal resources, online legal resources, and information technology to conduct legal research pertinent to American public law. Trained and served as an expert resource to attorneys and clients on utilizing legal resources and technologies. As a paralegal or equivalent, regularly used standard legal resources, online legal resources, and information technology to conduct legal research pertinent to American public law. As a paralegal or equivalent, gained familiarity with standard legal resources, online legal resources, and information technology in conducting legal research pertinent to American public law. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to prepare legal materials for publication. Prepared a variety of legal materials for publication in a professional setting in both print and electronic formats. This included: 1) cite-checking for accuracy, reviewing for Bluebook format, and identifying incorrect syntax, spelling, typographical, and coding errors in both print and electronic formats (e.g., PDF, XML); 2) refining legal products to conform to changing system requirements and capabilities; and 3) providing ongoing technical support and troubleshooting assistance for online publication systems, custom web applications, and websites. Answer to this question is required As a paralegal or equivalent, worked on a wide range of complex legal materials in both online (e.g., PDF, XML) and print formats in a professional setting. Routinely performed ALL of the above activities for an organization that published legal materials. As a paralegal or equivalent, worked on a wide range of legal materials in both online (e.g., PDF, XML) or print formats in a professional setting. Routinely performed AT LEAST TWO of the above activities for an organization that published legal materials. As a paralegal or equivalent, worked on a range of legal materials in both online (e.g., PDF, XML) or print formats in a professional setting. Routinely performed AT LEAST ONE of the above activities for an organization that published legal materials. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to solve problems and make decisions. Anticipated, defined, diagnosed, and resolved problems. This included seeking, logically examining, analyzing, interpreting, and synthesizing information from different sources; generating and evaluating reasonable alternative solutions and the implications, consequences, and benefits of choosing each alternative; selecting the most promising alternative or course of action that was consistent with past decisions and practices; and committing to action, even in uncertain situations. Answer to this question is required Anticipated, defined, diagnosed, and resolved highly complex, work-related problems requiring decisions with critical consequences. Considered multiple options for resolving problems and the long-range implications of each option before arriving at a decision. Sought the counsel and resources of highly qualified experts to help solve problems/reach decisions. Effectively resolved problems and took steps to prevent problems from recurring. Developed novel or innovative possible solutions to problems. Took charge of challenging situations and persisted to overcome substantial obstacles. Anticipated, defined, diagnosed, and resolved complex work-related problems requiring decisions with important consequences. Evaluated potential solutions to complex problems. Solicited input from others on possible solutions to problems. Made best decision possible in resolving situations using both logic and good judgment. Anticipated, defined, diagnosed, and resolved work-related problems requiring decisions with consequences. Evaluated potential solutions to problems. Solicited input from others on possible solutions to problems. Made best decision possible in resolving situations using both logic and good judgment. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).