Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Choose one statement that describes how you meet the basic education requirements for this position.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have undergraduate and/or graduate education with a major in illustrative design, commercial art, fine arts, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, or other fields related to the position. I have advanced training in a vocational school, technical institute, or art institute above the high school level in one of the fields listed above. I possess specialized experience in the actual type of work for which application is made. This includes work in the appropriate field, e.g., design, modelmaking, art, taxidermy, or restoration. None of the above. 3 Which of the following statements describe your experience preparing and managing budgets for graphics production? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have estimated costs for a graphics project based on historical data. I have estimated costs for a graphics project based on vendor quotes. I have researched graphic products and materials used in exhibitions. I have prepared graphic production cost estimates and budgets. I have negotiated product and material pricing with a vendor. I have tracked and monitored budgets. I have resolved billing issues with a vendor. None of the above. 4 Which of the following types of vendors have you experience working with as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Banner manufacturers. Tensile structure fabrication. Signage production. Riggers. Finishers. Silkscreeners. Sign painter. Graphic production. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to read and understand technical drawings and specifications? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience reading and understanding technical drawings and specifications. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have experience reading and understanding technical drawings and specifications as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have some experience reading and understanding technical drawings and specifications under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have training or education on reading and understanding technical drawings and specifications but have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating verbally to support all production functions? Answer to this question is required I have experience coordinating and communicating with diplomacy and tact when dealing with supervisors, clients, staff and others. I have experience functioning as effective leader, team member, and working with a variety of diverse personalities and professions. I have experience speaking to groups of people or individuals from various technical and professional backgrounds such as staff from other departments, other organizations and the general public to explain a project that involves a number of components (for example animal IDs, companion signs, banners and directional signage along with the other exhibit components such as murals and rock-work). I have experience speaking to a vendor or contractors to ensure a clear understanding of organizational needs. I have experience serving as a departmental representative in various meetings. I do not have related experience. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with internal and external networking sources? This could include staff at all levels, other organizations in the public and private sectors, universities and/or colleges, committees and groups. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 With which of the following audiences have you communicated in a professional setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Customers In-house staff Contractors Vendors Management None of the above 9 Which of the following graphic production skills and experience do you have? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in graphic production for museum exhibitions as it pertains to conservation requirements, specifically in use of graphic materials and substrates. I have extensive experience in a wide array of graphic production techniques such as direct-to-surface printing, vinyl and aqueous inks, and digital print media. I have some experience in graphics software such as the Adobe Suite. I have experience in digital printing, laminating and mounting. I have some experience in inks and their properties. I do not have any experience in graphics production. 10 Have you served as a supervisor as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following best describes your experience leading and supervising a diverse exhibits staff? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising a diverse exhibits staff including developing and administering work plans, implementing performance evaluations and disciplinary actions, creating job descriptions, and hiring staff. I have experience supervising a diverse exhibits staff including developing and administering work plans and implementing performance evaluations and disciplinary actions. I have experience supervising a diverse exhibits staff including developing and administering work plans. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your ability to work in and contribute to a team oriented environment? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in a team oriented environment. I have worked as a member of a team on projects and been responsible for discreet portions of complex installations. I have successfully led team projects, acting as team leader and completed complex, challenging projects in a museum or cultural institution. I have successfully led numerous team projects as the team leader and completed complex, challenging projects on time and within budget in a museum or cultural institution. 13 Which of the following interpersonal communication skills do you have experience as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. I have interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. I have provided direction, guidance, or instruction to new staff. I have administered consequences, holding others accountable to meet program requirements. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience reading scale drawings for the purpose of installing graphic components in museum exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in reading scale drawings for the purpose of installing graphic components in museum exhibitions. I have assisted with reading scale drawings for the purpose of installing graphic components in museum exhibitions. I have read scale drawings and installed graphic components as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review or guidance by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised staff who were responsible for reading scale drawings for the purpose of installing graphic components and/or I have trained others to accomplish this task and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following describes the techniques, materials and equipment you have used to install exhibition graphics? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience using a variety of adhesives and tapes to install exhibition graphics. I have experience working at heights up to 10 feet using scaffolding, lifts and/or ladders to install exhibition graphics. I have experience using vinyl transfer and burnishing to install exhibition graphics. I have experience using printed labels/text/images to install exhibition graphics. I have experience using large scale panels or murals to install exhibition graphics. None of the above, 16 Which of the following describes your experience in managing graphic production and installation schedules? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have met graphic production and installation schedules set by others. I have participated with others in setting graphic production and installation schedules. I have established graphic production and installation schedules for individual exhibitions. I have established graphic production and installation schedules for multiple, overlapping exhibitions or similar multi-year, multi-part museum exhibition projects. None of the above. 17 Which of the following best describes your skill level and experience in operating and maintaining hand and power tools and equipment such as mechanical lifts and ladders? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in operating and maintaining hand and power tools and equipment such as mechanical lifts and ladders. I have some experience using hand and power tools and equipment such as ladders, but no experience with mechanical lifts. I have some experience in operating and maintaining hand and power tools and equipment such as mechanical lifts and ladders. I use my experience in operating and maintaining hand and power tools and equipment such as mechanical lifts and ladders on a daily basis in a museum or cultural institution. 18 Which of the following types of exhibits production duties have you supervised in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required I have led more than one diverse team of exhibits specialists in producing and installing more than one complex and object-rich exhibition at the same time. I have led a diverse team of exhibits specialists in producing and installing more than one complex and object-rich exhibition at the same time. I have led a team of exhibits specialists in producing and installing one aspect of complex and object-rich exhibition. I have been part of a team of exhibit specialists who produced and installed one aspect of a complex exhibition. I have produced and installed one aspect of a museum exhibition. I do not have experience performing this task. 19 Which of the following best describes your experience in researching products and materials used in graphic production and preparation of graphic production and installation cost estimates and budgets for museum exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in researching products and materials used in graphic production and preparation of graphic production and installation cost estimates and budgets for museum exhibitions. I have researched products and materials used in graphic production under close supervision. I have researched products and materials used in graphic production and assisted with preparation of graphic production and installation cost estimates and budgets for museum exhibitions. I have researched products and materials used in graphic production and have experience in working with internal and external customers to prepare graphic production and installation cost estimates and budgets for museum exhibitions. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.