Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have applied independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Have you completed an EPA approved certification for Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (MVAC) under the Clean Air Act Section 609? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 10 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have applied independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Have you completed an EPA approved certification for Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (MVAC) under the Clean Air Act Section 609? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a valid, unexpired Class B Commercial Driver's License (CDL)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have applied independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Have you completed an EPA approved certification for Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning (MVAC) under the Clean Air Act Section 609? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you&nbsp;possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have valid DOT physical card on file with your local Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which instructions have you interpreted to maintain or repair vehicles? Answer to this question is required Machine operation manuals Vehicle specifications Vehicle maintenance schedules Safety procedures Vehicle operation manuals None of the above 6 Select the statement that best describes your ability to troubleshoot problems with heavy duty machinery, engines, parts and systems; to include detecting faulty items, determining causes of malfunction, best repair methods; and assembling, disassembling, repairing or modifying components and systems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 7 Which information have you read to operate motor vehicles? Answer to this question is required Traffic laws Defensive driving manuals Traffic signs Vehicle specifications Safety procedures Trip log instructions Vehicle operation manuals None of the above 8 Choose the statements that describe your driver competencies. Answer to this question is required Maneuvers vehicles in narrow and congested areas such as between buildings and other vehicles. Operates vehicles over a variety of roads and grades in all types of driving conditions. Selects and changes gears according to road and traffic conditions, speed, and vehicle requirements. Operates special purpose accessory equipment following safety procedures and precautions. Uses the power takeoff device to transfer engine power to the equipment. Manipulates a variety of controls, understands equipment gauges. Loads, distributes weight, and secures materials to prevent shifting during vehicle operation. Pre-plans route to follow; takes in consideration clearance of underpasses, overhead power lines, weight limitations, highway restrictions, and alternate bypass routes. Makes judgments concerning turning radius, braking distance, and distance to be maintained from other vehicles. None of the above. 9 Which response most closely matches your highest level of experience managing inventories of tools, equipment, or building system maintenance supplies? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing an inventory. I have inventoried tools and equipment under the direction of others. I ordered tools or equipment to ensure adequate supplies. I used inventories to forecast budgets for shop or maintenance supplies. 10 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience conducing vehicle inspections to ensure proper operation. Answer to this question is required I have independently inspected vehicle systems to identify maintenance or repairs needed. I have inspected vehicle systems under the direction of a mechanic. I have inspected vehicle parts under the direction of a mechanic. I have completed training on the techniques for vehicle inspection, but have not applied this on the job. I do not have experience inspecting vehicles. 11 Which of the following components do you have experience inspecting, removing, repairing, and/or replacing? Answer to this question is required Internal engine components (including tolerances) Exhaust system components Manual transmission components Internal clutch components External clutch components None of the above 12 I have independently performed the following duties and/or I am consulted by other employees regarding difficult situations. Answer to this question is required Determined the cause of malfunctions and made repairs to heavy mobile/weight handling equipment. Ensured that correct methods, procedures, processes, tools, test equipment, and specifications were used and followed. Inspected heavy mobile/weight handling equipment and associated components for conformance to work orders, quality, and other technical and performance requirements. Maintained, repaired, overhauled, and modified heavy mobile/weight handling equipment and systems. Used test procedures and equipment to trace and repair hard-to-locate problems. Prepared, maintained, and audited maintenance and test records to establish scope of repairs for heavy mobile/weight handling equipment and associated components. My experience does not match any of the statements above. 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.