Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 [332] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [845] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with inter- and intra-office communication. Answer to this question is required I have communicated effectively with co-workers within a team environment. I have coordinated work within the office with clerical, administrative and other personnel. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have made contacts with other offices within and outside the agency to obtain or provide information. I have received telephone calls, greeted visitors and determined where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members. None of the above 3 [6339] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience interacting within an office environment. Answer to this question is required I have received telephone calls, greeted visitors and determined where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed. I have communicated effectively with co-workers within a team environment. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members as well as when I personally handle matters not requiring technical knowledge. I have coordinated work within the office with clerical, administrative, and other personnel. I have made contacts with other offices within and outside the agency to obtain or provide information. I have served as the point of contact for the supervisor and interacted with high-level officials inside and outside of the organization. I have experience instructing others on procedural and formal requirements. I have experience explaining technical information (rules, regulations, etc.). I have prepared correspondence in final form in accordance with specific agency or corporate rules for formatting. I have prepared correspondence in final form when no specific format was required. None of the above 4 [8725] Do you have experience maintaining an office filing system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [2273] Choose the statement that best reflects your level of competence using automated systems to input, retrieve and reference technical information. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training in using automated systems to enter, retrieve and reference technical information. I have completed formal education or training in using automated systems to access data, but have not yet performed this on a job. I use automated systems to input, retrieve and reference technical information under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I use automated systems to input, retrieve and reference technical information as a regular and recurring part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I independently and regularly use automated systems to input, retrieve, and reference technical information as a major part of my job and I have trained others OR others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 [1813] Do you have demonstrated work experience preparing and proofreading correspondence and other documents in final format with correct grammar, spelling, and punctuation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [33409] Do you have experience utilizing automated systems and advanced functions of software packages to edit, format, and produce a wide variety of documents in various formats? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [8777] Select the statements that describe your experience interacting within a work environment. Answer to this question is required Receives telephone calls or greets visitors and determines where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed. Communicates effectively with co-workers within a team environment. Responds to routine inquiries and directs more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. Exercises tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members or personally handling matters not requiring technical knowledge. Makes contacts to other offices within and outside of the agency to obtain or provide information. Serve as the point of contact for the supervisor. Interact with high-level officials from inside and outside the organization. None of the above. 9 [3806] Choose the statement(s) that describe your written communication skills in dealing with security issues. Answer to this question is required I have written clear and concise documents on security issues relating to protection detail resources. I have developed written materials on security matters for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have drafted reports, memoranda and correspondence on security issues for signature by higher-level official. I have drafted policy and procedural material on security issues for dissemination to organizational level components. None of the above 10 [1458] Select the statement that best describes your experience interacting with and communicating issues to peers and upper level management within your organization. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 11 [15428] Select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your communication experience, skills, and abilities. Answer to this question is required I have worked on tasks and assignments that have not involved a high degree of communication with other organizational units. Work outcomes have generally been communicated through a superior in my immediate organizational unit. I have effectively communicated needs outside of my organizational unit and at my general level in order to complete a task. I have effectively communicated with individuals both within my organizational unit and outside of my organizational unit who are above my general level to complete a desired work product. I had some experience negotiating work products with superiors from organizations outside of my immediate organizational unit which have produced successful outcomes. None of the above. 12 [7569] Select the type(s) of experience you have had in communications. Answer to this question is required I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers to others on a regular basis. I have coordinated meetings or workshops. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or other environments. I have successfully completed college level speech courses, Toastmasters, etc. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have no experience in presenting material orally, but I believe I could do so. None of the above. 13 [760] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of demonstrated experience producing and managing correspondence, reports and written justifications as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have produced correspondence, reports and justifications, but had my work reviewed by a supervisor or co-worker.. I have been authorized to sign correspondence, reports and justifications. I have delegated the production of correspondence, reports and justifications. I have reviewed correspondence, reports and justifications prepared by subordinates. I have not prepared correspondence, reports and, justifications. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).