Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 Applicants applying for this position MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must be a licensed National Board of Respiratory Care (NBRC) Registered Respiratory Therapist or licensed NBRC Certified Respiratory Therapist.&nbsp; Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am a licensed NRBC Registered Respiratory Therapist or licensed NBRC Certified Respiratory Therapist. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload a copy of their license, at the time you apply to the vacancy, as proof of being a Registered Respiratory Therapist or Certified Respiratory Therapy Therapist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Respiratory Therapist must have technical, clinical, and administrative expertise in the area of respiratory care principles, concepts, and methods to apply new technologies in order to perform the full range of duties involved in planning, reviewing, and implementing programs necessary to meet the needs of the patients assigned to the care and custody of the Federal Medical Center. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized prescribed treatments were not effective and made recommendations for change; and/or I have identified abnormal results of such tests as peak flow, oxygen saturations, breath sounds; and/or I have identified abnormal cardiac and respiratory symptoms of patients involved in rehab programs; and/or I have a familiarity with medications used to treat pulmonary conditions, including drug use, action and side effects. I have maintained patients on life support ventilator systems; and/or I have performed patient assessments and made recommendations to physicians regarding respiratory health care needs of the patients utilizing various accepted tests; and/or I have collaborated with multiple disciplines to ensure continuity of care. I have evaluated effectiveness of existing prescribed treatments, and recommend changes as necessary; and/or I have identified and monitored patients that benefitted from sleep apnea studies, pulmonary rehab programs, including exercise and education programs; and/or I have served as a member of the interdisciplinary treatment team in planning and evaluating patient care. None of the above. 4 The Respiratory Therapist must be able to make sound decisions in emergency situations where the decisions could result in severe consequences, even loss of life, or destruction of property and act quickly in circumstances. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently handled situations of respiratory distress or arrest, as in initiating and maintaining ventilation during an emergency situation; and/or I have responded to emergencies and made decisions in compliance with policy; and/or I have managed patients requiring ventilatory support during other than emergent situations, (i.e., post-surgery). I have assisted with artificial ventilation and cardiac compressions during CPR; and/or I have recognized when ventilation was not effective and made recommendations; and/or I have directed others in various types of medical emergencies. I have obtained assistance in the event of emergencies; and/or I have detected and reported signs and symptoms of respiratory distress; and/or I have set priorities and accomplished the most important tasks first in respiratory care. None of the above. 5 The Respiratory Therapist must maintain a knowledge of the latest technological advancements sufficient to evaluate the effectiveness and usefulness of these advances in the daily operation and management of the respiratory department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have serviced/troubleshot equipment to prevent damage or malfunction; and/or I have used equipment and interpreted results; and/or I have recognized and recommended equipment needs for respiratory department. I have recognized and recommended needs of preventative maintenance on equipment; and/or I have evaluated new equipment for departmental use; and/or I have performed Pulmonary Functioning Tests and recognized abnormal results. I have maintained adequate inventory of respiratory supplies and equipment; and/or I have recognized malfunctioning or damaged equipment and referral to Bio-medical Department for repair; and/or I have instructed patients on proper use, care, and maintenance of equipment. None of the above. 6 The Respiratory Therapist must be able to retain a knowledge of communication principles (Oral and written) and skill in effectively interacting with staff members at all levels within the institution and Bureau. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions to unit staff; and/or I have instructed inmate/patients concerning disease process and treatment; and/or I have presented safety training; and/or I have given accurate and concise reports to other staff. I have coordinated services with outside consultants for sleep evaluations or advanced pulmonary management; and/or I have coordinated with physicians the medical needs of the patients, to exchange and receive information to improve work efforts in the department; and/or I have evaluated and consulted with physicians on the diagnosis, treatment, and management of all diseases pertaining to the respiratory system; and/or I have worked with outside vendors while following contract and procurement policies; and/or I have advised and trained nursing staff regarding the respiratory therapy process; and/or I have communicated with in-house departments, public and private agencies to aid with effective operation. I have developed and presented training programs for staff; and/or I have served as a preceptor or assisted in orientation of new staff to respiratory management; and/or I have instructed non-compliant patient on the benefits of prescribed treatments so they could make an informed decision. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).