Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to research, analyze, and evaluate issues. ** Utilized various sources including on-line tools to analyze issues and problems in documents or records; to conduct initial research and recommend action; and to solve problems. Answer to this question is required Independently researched, analyzed, and evaluated documents, issues, procedures and/or practices for compliance AND effectiveness in a workplace or academic setting. Performed work involving identification of appropriate resources and the interrelationships of the available resources and analysis of conflicting issues and problems. For example, researched and compiled data and information for reports and papers on whether the policies and procedures used responded to the needs of clients and staff. Recommendations were successfully implemented, and the problems were resolved in a timely manner. Researched, analyzed, and evaluated documents, issues, procedures, and practices for compliance AND effectiveness in a workplace or academic setting. Performed work involving identification and analysis of conflicting issues and problems. For example, served on a committee which analyzed new policies or practices for operational and/or legal compliance. The committee’s recommendations were successfully implemented, and the issues/problems were resolved in a timely manner. Researched, analyzed, and evaluated documents, problems and issues, and made timely recommendations for resolution. For example, evaluated documents for operational compliance in a workplace or an academic setting. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute work. ** Demonstrated ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute work assignments in a timely manner Answer to this question is required Independently planned, prioritized, organized, and completed work assignments for self and workgroup, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required inputs and resources, established schedules, and met deadlines and milestones. (For example, successfully served as the team lead on a project which required extensive reporting, challenging deadlines and precise documentation of steps and results. The work required interpretation to determine priorities and appropriate applicable guidelines.) With minimal supervision, planned, organized, and completed work assignments, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required inputs and resources, and met deadlines and milestones. (For example, worked primarily independently to process documentation for an organization or worked on a graduate or collegiate degree program which required the timely completion of multiple and competing challenging writing assignments. Assignments included those that required precise application of instructions and guidelines as well as interpretation to determine which guidelines to use in a given situation or assignment.) With minimal supervision, planned, organized and completed work assignments including identifying work objectives, following established procedures, and meeting deadlines and milestones. (For example, worked primarily independently to plan and organize a variety of work or educational assignments with competing priorities. Assignments included those that required precise application of instructions and guidelines.) None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to utilize computer technology/software applications. Utilized computer technology and software applications as a component of work performed for an organization, including: 1) word-processing and document management software (e.g., Microsoft Word, Adobe), 2) electronic mail and scheduling software (e.g., Outlook), 3) authoritative web/internet access and resources (e.g., government and university websites), 4) spreadsheet and database management software (e.g., Access, Microsoft Excel), 5) presentation software (e.g., Power Point), 6) collaborative tracking software (e.g., SharePoint, Siebel, Tririga and/or wikis), and 7) online catalogs/databases. Answer to this question is required Used ALL of the above to perform work in a professional office or academic setting. Used FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above to perform work in a professional office or academic setting. Used FOUR (4) of the above to perform work in a professional office or academic setting. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures and practices. Used knowledge of Copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures, and/or practices to communicate information. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of copyright law, regulations, organizational structure and office practices in responding to inquiries and resolving operational and procedural issues. Used Copyright Office records regularly. Completed coursework in copyright law and applied knowledge in analyzing issues related to copyright and other areas of intellectual property law. Applied knowledge of copyright law in a workplace or academic setting. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to meet and deal with others. Developed and maintained relationships with a variety of individuals to accomplish the position&rsquo;s duties. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships and networks beneficial to the successful performance of assignments. Regularly interacted with supervisors and others to complete work assignments. Participated in discussions on issues related to copyright to gather and disseminate information. Experience developing and maintaining relationships and networks beneficial to the successful performance of assignments. Regularly interacted with supervisors and others to complete work assignments. Experience developing and maintaining relationships and networks beneficial to the successful performance of assignments. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).