Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describe your highest level of experience directing the work of employees performing installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electrical systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training performing these tasks. I have completed formal education or training, but have not yet performed these tasks on the job. I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I am regarded as an expert in performing these tasks, and/or have trained others on how to perform the tasks. 2 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 3 Which conduit bending device(s) have you used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Manual Electric Hydraulic Heat None of the above 4 Which task(s) have you performed to troubleshoot electrical equipment and/or systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Read and interpret building plans Read and interpret blueprints Read and interpret sketches Read and interpret wiring diagrams None of the above 5 Which task(s) have you performed to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Install wires Install conduits Install starters Install relays Install transformers 480V/208V Install circuit breakers None of the above 6 Select the tasks you have performed to troubleshoot electrical circuits. Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Removed fixtures and replaced fixtures. Removed controls and replaced controls. Installed new outlets in existing circuits. Relocated outlets in existing circuits. Installed safety switches (fused or non-fused). Installed switchgears. Installed transformers. None of the above. 7 Please list the systems have you operated, maintained, calibrated, repaired, or conducted troubleshooting. (include the organization you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume). Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Which of the following types of systems have you been responsible for operating or maintaining? Answer to this question is required DDC BASNet PLC Lighting Control Systems None of the above 9 Select the tasks you have performed when leading others. Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and personal protective equipment. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff. Made promotion decisions. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Recommended personnel actions. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 10 Do you have experience diagnosing improper operations or malfunctions in electrical systems independently and with little supervision? If yes, please provide an example of a time you diagnosed an improper operation or malfunction in a electrical system (max 250 words) Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 11 Do you have experience ensuring that employees understand safety precautions (e.g., lock-out, tag-out, personal protective equipment)? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Yes No 12 Please select the choice(s) reflecting equipment you have used independently and trained others to use properly? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohm meters Watt-meters Amp-meters Milliamp meters Ground fault indicators Amp probes Frequency meters Surge test equipment None of the above 13 Do you have experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Lighting Control Systems and for the day-to-day overall performance?&nbsp; What systems have you operated, maintained, calibrated, repaired, or conducted troubleshooting. (max of 250) Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 14 Have you completed the installation of full wiring systems for commercial occupied facilities independently and with little to no supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 &middot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Describe your experience with Computer Aided Facility Management software. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 &middot; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Describe your experience reviewing facility conditions. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 Do you have any licensure in the electrical occupational field? If yes, explain what license/certifications you currently hold (max 250 words) Answer to this question is required Yes 17.1 Please list the name of the certification(s) and the date(s) the certification was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 18 Describe how you would develop a rapport and build morale for a team under your supervision. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 Describe your experience coordinating and communicating facility outage with stakeholders (planned or unplanned event). If you have no experience, state N/A. &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 20 Describe your experience developing process improvements for a company or organization. What was the situation, task at hand, action you took and result that occurred? (Maximum 1000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.