Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Sports Specialist must possess the ability to deal effectively with individuals of differing backgrounds, race, religions, sexes, cultures, and behavioral patterns.&nbsp;The Sports Specialist typically interacts with inmates, co-workers, institution officials, contractors, manufacturers, entertainers, guests, community officials, and civic organizations to assist in the operation of recreation/wellness/leisure programs for incarcerated individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to simple requests for directions within the recreation or facility area; and/or I have informed participants of scheduled start/end times for activities without elaboration; and/or I have provided reminders to participants about safety protocols or behavioral expectations using prepared statements; and/or I have referred complaints or unusual questions to a supervisor without attempting to resolve them; and/or I have answered the telephone and transferred calls or took basic messages accurately. I have assisted in coaching a sports team; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions that encouraged increased participation; and/or I have helped facilitate a training session on recreation/leisure program procedures by communicating own ideas for programs. I have repeated or relayed instructions from the coach to participants who missed or misunderstood instructions; and/or I have responded to basic participant questions about the activity; and/or I have called out activity cues or timing reminders as directed by the coach/facilitator; and/or I have welcomed new participants and provided a simple explanation of the day’s activities. None of the above. 3 The Sports Specialist must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;In addition, the Sports Specialist must be cognizant of the intended audience and tailor written communication accordingly.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted internal memorandums; and/or I have maintained written activity logs to document participation and daily program hours; and/or I have provided program participation information to a supervisor for reporting purposes; and/or I have recorded game results and maintained scorekeeping documentation. I have prepared work status reports for supervisor review; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted correspondence; and/or I have assisted with routine, recurring email responses to inquiries. I have entered names and scores into official score book; and/or I have typed official team rosters with accuracy to be publicly posted; and/or I have assisted participants with completing activity sign-up sheets. None of the above. 4 The Sports Specialist is responsible for developing recreation programs, planning hours of operation, creating activity schedules, and coordinating the number of participants, volunteers, and officials. To effectively develop program rules and expectations, he/she must possess a thorough knowledge of the rules, regulations, and governing policies of recreation, sports management, wellness, and leisure programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in scheduling arts and crafts activities in an assisted living facility; and/or I have assisted a supervisor in coordinating a sports league; and/or I have as a member of a group, coordinated an end-of-season party for players of an organized sports team. I have retrieved, returned, or stored equipment before or after a recreational activity when instructed; and/or I have handed out scorecards, participation tokens, or sign-in sheets for scheduled events; and/or I have observed a recreational activity or game and reported participant conduct or issues to the supervisor; and/or I have helped distribute program flyers or posted scheduled information in designated areas; and/or I have provided verbal reminders to participants about start times or location changes as directed. I have helped set up program materials or sports equipment according to instructions from a supervisor; and/or I have monitored a station or activity during a fitness or recreation circuit, ensuring participants followed instructions; and/or I have posted or announced changes to the schedule during the event when instructed to do so. None of the above. 5 The Sports Specialist must understand current philosophies and guidelines regarding recreation, wellness, and leisure activities. To successfully fulfill the requirements of this position, he/she must possess the ability to perform multiple tasks simultaneously and demonstrate effective planning and organizational skills.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have watched over an area (i.e., gym, field, or room) and alerted a supervisor if issues arose; and/or I have distributed or collected recreational materials (i.e., balls, cones, towels) as directed; and/or I have recorded simple information (i.e., names on a sign-in sheet or start times for activities); and/or I have cleaned or organized recreational areas after use, following a checklist or verbal instructions; and/or I have reported low supplies or missing items to a supervisor without conducting a formal inventory. I have supervised unstructured large recreational activities with others (i.e., open gym, playground); and/or I have supervised small groups of participants independently; and/or I have conducted inventories of equipment and supplies. I have utilized established tracking sheets or methods for participant participation/completion; and/or I have successfully met deadlines established by a supervisor for assignments/activities; and/or I have assisted a supervisor with inventories of equipment and supplies. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Sports Specialist must possess the ability to deal effectively with individuals of differing backgrounds, race, religions, sexes, cultures, and behavioral patterns.&nbsp;The Sports Specialist typically interacts with inmates, co-workers, institution officials, contractors, manufacturers, entertainers, guests, community officials, and civic organizations to assist in the operation of recreation/wellness/leisure programs for incarcerated individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have repeated or relayed instructions from the coach to participants who missed or misunderstood instructions; and/or I have responded to basic participant questions about the activity; and/or I have called out activity cues or timing reminders as directed by the coach/facilitator; and/or I have welcomed new participants and provided a simple explanation of the day’s activities. I have explained and assigned activity schedules to participants and coaches during planned meetings; and/or I have communicated league/team requirements and expectations to participants; and/or I have communicated proposed recreational program needs to supervisor, which resulted in additional equipment being purchased or programs being implemented; and/or I have performed individual/group fitness counseling sessions and recommended program referrals. I have assisted in coaching a sports team; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions that encouraged increased participation; and/or I have helped facilitate a training session on recreation/leisure program procedures by communicating own ideas for programs. None of the above. 3 The Sports Specialist must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;In addition, the Sports Specialist must be cognizant of the intended audience and tailor written communication accordingly.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted internal memorandums; and/or I have maintained written activity logs to document participation and daily program hours; and/or I have provided program participation information to a supervisor for reporting purposes; and/or I have recorded game results and maintained scorekeeping documentation. I have written articles for publication in an internal newsletter (i.e., league standings/game results); and/or I have prepared reports and/or correspondence for supervisor approval and signature; and/or I have assisted in preparing a proposal to update current policy based on new developments; and/or I have assisted in preparing program plans at local recreation centers and health clubs; and/or I have prepared activity flyers and schedules announcing dates and times of upcoming events. I have prepared work status reports for supervisor review; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted correspondence; and/or I have assisted with routine, recurring email responses to inquiries. None of the above. 4 The Sports Specialist is responsible for developing recreation programs, planning hours of operation, creating activity schedules, and coordinating the number of participants, volunteers, and officials. To effectively develop program rules and expectations, he/she must possess a thorough knowledge of the rules, regulations, and governing policies of recreation, sports management, wellness, and leisure programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have helped set up program materials or sports equipment according to instructions from a supervisor; and/or I have monitored a station or activity during a fitness or recreation circuit, ensuring participants followed instructions; and/or I have posted or announced changes to the schedule during the event when instructed to do so. I have assisted in scheduling arts and crafts activities in an assisted living facility; and/or I have assisted a supervisor in coordinating a sports league; and/or I have as a member of a group, coordinated an end-of-season party for players of an organized sports team. I have monitored day-to-day operations at a recreational facility; and/or I have assisted in umpiring/officiating team sporting events; and/or I have coached in a sports league or worked at a health club. None of the above. 5 The Sports Specialist must understand current philosophies and guidelines regarding recreation, wellness, and leisure activities. To successfully fulfill the requirements of this position, he/she must possess the ability to perform multiple tasks simultaneously and demonstrate effective planning and organizational skills.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized established tracking sheets or methods for participant participation/completion; and/or I have successfully met deadlines established by a supervisor for assignments/activities; and/or I have assisted a supervisor with inventories of equipment and supplies. I have scheduled and coordinated hours of operation and recreation programs for a gymnasium; and/or I have assisted in the organization and operation of unrelated wellness/fitness/leisure programs; and/or I have utilized an existing database to complete/track assignments; and/or I have ensured internal deadlines were met timely; and/or I have monitored supply usage and informed supervisor of restocking needs; and/or I have maintained program-related records and files. I have supervised unstructured large recreational activities with others (i.e., open gym, playground); and/or I have supervised small groups of participants independently; and/or I have conducted inventories of equipment and supplies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).