Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [4965] From the following list, select all shift work statements that apply. Answer to this question is required I can work a continuous 18-hour shift. I can work extra hours/days as needed. I can work rotating day and night 12-hour shifts. I am available to work on short-notice (12 hours or less). None of the above. 3 [54372] Select the statement that best describes your experience applying federal, state and local regulations and policies concerning vessel traffic management activities. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 [15806] Select the response that best describes your knowledge of navigational rules and regulations for marine transportation, and your familiarity with the Great Lakes/St. Lawrence River system. Answer to this question is required I have knowledge obtained from my hands-on work experience at the Saint Lawrence Seaway. I have knowledge obtained from my hands-on work experience at other marine related agencies. My knowledge of this was gained through personal observations and work experience associated with the Saint Lawrence Seaway or other marine related agencies. None of the above. 5 [54373] Select the statement that best describes your experience monitoring, advising and directing the movement of maritime vessel traffic in an assigned sector to reduce the probability of collisions, rammings, groundings, and ensuing environmental damage. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 [54374] Select the statement that best describes your experience participating in training exercises to prepare for maritime accidents or natural disasters. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 [54375] Select the statement that best describes your experience operating radiotelephone systems, land-line circuits, computers and other keyboard equipment to collect, evaluate, update, and disseminate maritime vessel traffic and navigation safety information. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 [55790] Select the navigation and/or communication equipment you have experience using. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Radar Loran Satellite Navigation Global Positioning System (GPS) Navigational charts Depth Finder Ham Radio Marine Radio Citizen's Band/Single Side Band radio None of the above 9 [55789] Select the response that best describes your knowledge using navigation and communication equipment. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have no experience using navigation and communication equipment. I have training in the use of navigation and/or communication equipment, but have little to no practical experience using the equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment with supervision and guidance, but have no experience using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using navigation equipment. I am comfortable using navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision, but require assistance and/or guidance using communication equipment. I am comfortable using communication AND navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision as a regular and recurring part of my duties. I am very comfortable and experienced using communication and navigation equipment on my own with no guidance nor supervision and am often looked to for guidance or asked to train others on the use of both types of equipment. 10 [52273] Select the response that best describes your experience interpreting nautical charts to determine changes to channel landmarks, buoys, beacons, navigational lights, chart symbols and terminology in order to navigate safely. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I am regarded as expert in performing this task, and/or have trained others (or am consulted by others) on how to do this task. 11 [54376] Select the statement that best describes your experience with nautical charts, to collect, verify, and complement information obtained from other sources to assist in making vessel traffic movement and control determinations. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 [9210] Do you have experience applying, interpreting and providing guidance on Communication, Navigation, Surveillance and Traffic Management Systems issues to customers, technical teams, and other groups and individuals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 [54377] Select the statement that best describes your experience briefing other traffic control specialists (or individuals in similar positions) on all aspects of maritime vessel traffic operations and weather conditions when maritime vessels enter their sector or when being relieved of a shift. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 3 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. Answer to this question is required I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 7 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Answer to this question is required Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 10 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 11 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 12 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 14 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 15 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Response cannot exceed 200 words. 16 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 17 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 17.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 17.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 17.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).