Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Assistant Locksmiths have direct and frequent contact with institutional management and line staff. In addition, during periods of absence of the Locksmith, they may contact employees of the Regional and Central Office, personnel of local and state agencies, other federal agency personnel, A&amp;E firms, lock manufacturers and weapons and munitions companies.&nbsp; Effective communication skills are required of the incumbent in order to effectively provide technical assistance, and to obtain needed information to stay abreast of new equipment and/or techniques used in the areas relative to the&nbsp;lockshop, armory and institution security. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered general questions from staff regarding lockshop operations; and/or I have presented findings of internal audit to supervisor for further action; and/or I have discussed security concerns identified with supervisor. I have issued emergency equipment during an institution emergency as an Alternate Assistant Locksmith; and/or I have participated in a mock emergency situation for training purposes; and/or I have presented recommendations to management as a result of inspection findings. I have assisted in presenting an established training class during Annual Refresher Training or Institution Familiarization Training; and/or I have issued escape kits; and/or I have obtained required information from a weapons vendor; and/or I have contacted manufacturer to correct erroneous shipment of locking devices. None of the above. 3 Assistant Locksmiths must keep abreast of all emergency equipment utilized by the Bureau of Prisons. They must possess the ability to issue, purchase, maintain and train staff for use to ensure the institution is in a constant state of readiness for emergency situations inherent to a correctional environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained Disturbance Control Squad in the proper maintenance and accountability of equipment and related gear; and/or I have recommended equipment for issuance to Disturbance Control Team members; and/or I have ensured firearms were properly cleaned and stored. I have ensured appropriate restraints were applied in accordance with governing policies and regulations; and/or I have cleaned and repaired institution firearms; and/or I have inventoried emergency equipment to assist in determining items required to be purchased. I have maintained appropriate stock level of disposable restraints; and/or I have performed inventories of ammunition and firearms; and/or I have prepared purchase requests for emergency equipment, as instructed. None of the above. 4 Assistant Locksmiths must possess comprehensive knowledge of the theories, principles, practices and techniques related to locking devices, keys, emergency equipment, firearms, chemical agents and ammunition. This knowledge is required in order to effectively assist in the orderly operation of the institution lockshop and armory. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I am familiar with hunting weapons and ammunition; and/or I have assisted in pinning basic locking devices; and/or I have cut keys under close supervision; and/or I have assisted in maintaining inventories of supplies. I have pinned a lock according to instructions; and/or I have maintained inventory records of supplies; and/or I have cut basic keys for use by others (i.e., house keys, padlock keys, car keys); and/or I am familiar with using various weapons. I have repaired security locking devices in a correctional setting; and/or I have followed guidelines and policy in adding and/or removing a key from a key ring; and/or I have utilized a variety of weapons used in a correctional environment. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).