Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following activities represents your experience as a project manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led the planning, organization and execution of projects with multiple components. I have developed project timelines and milestones. I have overseen project budgets and expenses. I have tracked the progress of projects. I have overseen project procurement. I have developed contract specifications. I have coordinated multi-departmental project reviews at various stages. I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships among organizations and across departments? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners in a museum setting. I have experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships, but only with only external partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships, but only with only internal partners. I do not have any experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships. 4 Which of the following describes your experience with project management for a museum or other cultural heritage organization?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience as a project manager for a museum or other cultural heritage organization. I have experience as a project manager for an organization. I have no experience as a project manager. 5 Which of the following activities represent your experience in managing purchasing and contracting as a Project Manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a contracting representative. I have performed market research and obtained quotes for simple acquisitions. I have served on contract evaluation and selection committees. I have developed purchase orders. I have monitored contract performance and approved work for payment. I have monitored multiple contracts with varying schedules. I have managed rights-in-data or similar permissions for digital and traditional images. I have written statements of work for Requests for Proposals (RFPs) or Requests for Quotations (RFQs). None of the above. 6 Which of the following represents your level of experience with developing budgets and spending plans as a Project Manager? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed one or more multiple-year projects. I have developed one or more projects with a mixture of time-limited and no-year funding. I have developed one or more projects with multiple funding streams. I have managed projects with salaries and benefits, design and fabrication. I have developed one or more projects for which I approved all expenditures. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your highest level of budget monitoring for a project: Answer to this question is required I have monitored project expenditures and kept the team informed. I have monitored project expenditures and alerted the team members to overspending. I have monitored project expenditures and led the team in agreeing to cut specific expenses. I have monitored project expenditures and cut specific expenses to avoid overspending. I have monitored project expenditures, projected shortages in the out years and persuaded team to agree to cut specific expenses. I have not monitored project expenditures in any of these manners. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with managing volunteers and/or interns? Answer to this question is required I have experience motivating, guiding and assisting volunteers and/or interns of diverse backgrounds (most of who have stayed with the program for at least 5 years). I have experience motivating, guiding and assisting volunteers and/or interns of diverse backgrounds (most of who have stayed with the program for at least 2 years). I have experience recruiting volunteers and/or interns. I have experience assisting an unpaid labor force. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience leading and motivating volunteers and/or interns on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required I have assigned work to volunteers and/or or interns. I have evaluated the training needs of volunteers and/or interns. I have guided volunteers and/or interns. I have participated in initiatives to retain volunteers and/or interns. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best reflects your ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required On behalf of my supervisor/manager I have assisted in orally presenting ideas and decisions which are routine in nature to co-workers and a variety of individuals. I have communicated regularly with co-workers and professional colleagues providing detailed programmatic information and explanations of involved procedures. I communicate daily with professional colleagues, vendors, and contractors discussing programmatic issues, negotiating resolutions to project concerns, and disseminating detailed project information. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience in making group presentations in person? Answer to this question is required I have more than four years’ experience with in-person group presentations. I have 2-4 years’ experience with in-person group presentations. I have less than 2 years’ experience with in-person group presentations. I have no experience with in-person group presentations. 12 Which of the following best describes your ability to apply knowledge of organization-specific programs to develop, build, and maintain interpersonal relationships? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience applying knowledge of organization-specific programs to develop, build, and maintain interpersonal relationships. I have served on a team that applied knowledge of organization-specific programs to develop, build, and maintain interpersonal relationships that contribute to the accomplishment of specific goals and objectives. I have led a team of people whose responsibility was to apply knowledge of organization-specific programs to develop, build, and maintain interpersonal relationships that contribute to the accomplishment of specific goals and objectives. I have applied knowledge of organization-specific programs to develop, build, and maintain interpersonal relationships that has been a central or major part of my work (as a member of senior leadership). Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.