Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The National Correctional Support Teams Coordinator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals from Central Office, Regional Offices, and institutions regarding matters related to the implementation, administration, evaluation, and modification of Correctional Support Team (CST) programs. He/she conveys clear and professional high-level briefings on all aspects of the Correctional Support Teams (CSTs) to Bureau of Prisons (BOP) leadership and to groups both within and outside the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Bureau of Prisons (BOP). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented information to peers during training; and/or I have participated with others in presenting an oral briefing to supervisor on issues directly related to the core mission of the department; and/or I have shared relevant policy or procedural information with others within and outside of department in order to ensure a department function was executed properly; and/or I have participated in discussions at a professional conference focused on peer support or employee wellness. I have presented formal training at a local training event; and/or I have assisted with providing an oral briefing to local leadership on issues related to crisis intervention; and/or I have, as a member of a peer support team, assisted with the dissemination of information to other team members; and/or I have assisted with presenting a research paper at a conference on a topic related to peer support. I have developed, facilitated and provided formal training at a national training event related to peer support and employee wellness; and/or I have provided an oral briefing to national leadership on issues directly related to peer support and employee wellness; and/or I have, as the leader of a peer support team, provided team members with instruction related to peer support and crisis intervention; and/or I have presented a research paper at a conference on a topic related to peer support and employee wellness. None of the above. 4 The National Correctional Support Teams Coordinator develops and drafts technical guidance for implementation for all Correctional Support Team (CST) communications.&nbsp; He/she produces written information on peer support. The National Correctional Support Teams Coordinator must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to a variety of targeted audiences, which include Department of Justice (DOJ) officials, agency executives, managers and line staff. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, based upon results from an audit, developed and implemented corrective action; and/or I have created handouts or flyers on the topic of peer support or employee wellness; and/or I have prepared written responses to staff inquiries. I have prepared a formal response on all findings from an audit conducted; and/or I have authored materials focused on peer support and employee wellness; and/or I have, as the leader of a peer support team, written and implemented a proposal for addressing the needs of employees; and/or I have collected and reported data related to team activities; and/or I have prepared briefings for individuals external to the agency on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have independently prepared a response to an audit or comparable local quality assurance; and/or I have, as a member of a peer support team, assisted with writing and implementing a proposal for addressing the needs of employees; and/or I have assisted others with collecting and reporting data related to team activities; and/or I have drafted Institution Supplement or comparable local guidance documents. None of the above. 5 The National Correctional Support Teams Coordinator works directly with Central Office, Regional Offices, and institutions related to the implementation, administration, evaluation, and modification of the Correctional Support Team (CST) program.&nbsp; He/she ensures available resources are appropriately distributed and utilized by Correctional Support Teams (CSTs).&nbsp; He/she is responsible for the overall management of the Correctional Support Team (CST) program at Central Office and coordinates the program at the Regional Office level, and in each of the field institutions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as a member of a peer support team, ensured available resources and supplies were appropriately utilized by team members; and/or I have developed plans to modify program operations; and/or I have ensured a specific team function was implemented in accordance with policy requirements and team leader direction. I have, as the leader of a peer support team, ensured available resources and supplies were appropriately secured, distributed, and utilized by team members; and/or I have developed national policy to guide the implementation of a new program in an agency/organization; and/or I have developed plans and projections for anticipated funding resources needed for a program. I have ensured available departmental resources were secured and utilized; and/or I have ensured specific policy requirements were implemented appropriately; and/or I have ensured accountable property within the department was accounted for annually. None of the above. 6 The National Correctional Support Teams Coordinator is the agency&rsquo;s subject matter expert and consultant on complex issues concerning peer support and crisis support needs Bureau-wide, to include clinical knowledge of suicide prevention interventions.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for developing and disseminating technical guidance for implementation and for resolving policy conflicts surrounding peer support and crisis support.&nbsp; He/she participates in national task forces and inter-agency work groups that are focused on employee support and crisis support initiatives including Correctional Support Team (CST) working groups and suicide prevention working groups. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as a leader of a peer support team, implemented policy directives related to peer support and employee wellness in a correctional institution; and/or I have provided information on peer support and crisis support to local leadership; and/or I have coordinated efforts focused on employee support and crisis support initiatives; and/or I have independently sought out external resources to address the health and wellness of employees. I have, as a member of a peer support team, assisted with implementing policy directives related to peer support or employee wellness; and/or I have involved in local crisis support efforts to staff in a correctional institution; and/or I have participated in efforts focused on employee support and crisis support initiatives; and/or I have distributed information on health and wellness issues. I have provided information to others on the various services available within the Employee Assistance Program (EAP); and/or I have participated, formally or informally, in initiatives to address the health and wellness of peers; and/or I have obtained and shared information on issues relating to suicide prevention for improvement and management of programming. None of the above. 7 The National Correctional Support Teams Coordinator oversees the organization, development, and curriculum of Correctional Support Teams (CSTs) national training.&nbsp; He/she works with staff from Central Office, Regional Office, and institutions to develop, support and implement the training of Correctional Support Teams (CSTs), including the generation of new Correctional Support Team (CST) programming around peer support and crisis support. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with high ranking officials internal to the organization to brief executive staff/upper management on peer support or wellness topics; and/or I have assisted with facilitating a local training on peer support; and/or I have developed and provided training to coworkers on a topic related to suicide prevention; and/or I have provided coworkers with constructive feedback and coached others on how to perform department tasks; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have demonstrated familiarity with current training practices in the public and private sector; and/or I have completed questionnaires, evaluations or surveys as a participant of training. I have facilitated meetings and presented briefings/trainings/presentations for a specific peer support and wellness topic which was utilized at the national level of an agency/organization; and/or I have, as the leader of a peer support team, identified training needs for the team and facilitated local training on peer support and wellness topics; and/or I have recruited new peer support team members and provided guidance and mentorship; and/or I have provided constructive feedback and coached others on how to perform peer support tasks; and/or I have coached and mentored others through formal mentoring program; and/or I have identified ways that training can assist in solving problems; and/or I have conducted analysis of new peer support and wellness training strategies and methodologies used in agency training programs. I have assisted with facilitating national training on peer support; and/or I have, as a member of a peer support team, identified training a team needs and developed local training on peer support or wellness topics; and/or I have advised others of available training that would enhance their job knowledge; and/or I have revised peer support or wellness training strategies as needed; and/or I have conducted and participated in meetings by provided presentations for internal and external participants. None of the above. 8 The National Correctional Support Teams Coordinator encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust and group identity for the Correctional Support Teams (CSTs).&nbsp; He/she fosters commitment and teamwork within and between all Correctional Support Teams (CSTs) and facilitates program goal achievements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified strategies and developed plans that addressed peer support needs; and/or I have, as a member of a peer support team, facilitated meetings among peer support team members; and/or I have fostered cooperation with other peer support teams to achieve program goals. I have worked with staff at varying levels nationwide to develop mentor components; and/or I have facilitated wellness events among coworkers; and/or I have provided general feedback to peers on ongoing project(s). I have, as the leader of a peer support team, resolved conflicting priorities to achieve program goals among peer support team members; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have fostered cooperation with other departments to achieve program goals. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).