Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Employee Development Manager must identify training needs in order to develop employee development programs that foster career progression. He/she is also responsible for ensuring instructional design applications are analyzed and evaluated on an ongoing basis to establish their quality and overall effectiveness. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified instructors and organized course materials for training classes; and/or I have modified an existing lesson plan to accommodate local needs; and/or I have made recommendations regarding a new training program. I have determined training standards of an employee who moved from one position to another; and/or I have ensured mandatory training courses were correctly assigned to a staff; and/or I have reviewed reports to ensure mandatory compliance. I have assisted in the instruction of trainees enrolled in training courses; and/or I have served as a resource person for local training needs assessments; and/or I have explained training policies and procedures. None of the above. 5 The Employee Development Manager must be aware of all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively manage an employee development program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured needs assessment forms were completed in accordance with policy requirements; and/or I have explained application procedures for training/vacancy announcements; and/or I have reviewed course evaluations and provided summaries to instructors. I have developed local office procedures for conducting training that complied with national policy; and/or I have ensured that those in collateral duty positions (i.e., Training Coach, self-defense instructor, firearms instructors etc.) have completed mandatory training; and/or I have explained training requirements to vendors interested in providing training to employees. I have reviewed policy to the application of specific Mandatory Training Standards; and/or I have determined appropriate mandatory certification to use based on position assignment; and/or I have assisted with updating policies or procedures based on review of the governing policies and regulations. None of the above. 6 The Employee Development Manager must manage funds and equipment to ensure the training needs of the agency are met. He/she must be able to coordinate and prioritize efforts to ensure programs are completed as projected. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured training sign in sheets were provided and keyed; and/or I have served as an instructor; and/or I have ensured assigned instructors are properly prepared to instruct. I have generated training reports and tracked mandatory training for an institution; and/or I have coordinated training agendas of Annual Training; and/or I have monitored an on-going training component. I have ensured proper use, maintenance, and return of training equipment; and/or I have developed training instructor or employee development staff schedules; and/or I have ensured facilities or designated class areas were available for training. None of the above. 7 The Employee Development Manager communicates on a regular basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the public to management officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and/or persuade others on the mission and objective of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have relayed selection for training procedures; and/or I have explained non-routine and routine training requirements to staff; and/or I have taught a class during Annual Training. I have provided advice or assistance to agency personnel on training or curriculum procedures; and/or I have provided formal training to co-worker on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures. I have taught training courses on human resources programs; and/or I have served as an instructor for a local training (i.e. Introduction to Correction Techniques Phase I, Annual Training, local leadership, etc.); and/or I have presented information at department meeting; and/or I have researched communication software programs to effectively manage and conduct training courses. None of the above. 8 The Employee Development Manager is responsible for evaluating and interpreting laws, policies, and procedures relative to Employee Development program to identify training needs and develop training programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained data from national data/information sources to assist in training program planning activities; and/or I have evaluated and documented findings during a program review; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis and reporting of program assessments. I have recommended the adoption of a revised course outline or a new type of training aid; and/or I have ensured all required training programs were implemented; and/or I have served as a course instructor. I have ensured needs assessment forms were completed in accordance with policy requirements; and/or I have explained application procedures for training/vacancy announcements; and/or I have reviewed course evaluations and provided summaries to instructors. None of the above. 9 The Employee Development Manager is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. He/she directly supervises subordinate employee(s) and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have observed the process of teamwork and methods and techniques used to derive results; and/or I have identified and notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities; and/or I have assisted other staff in completing training needs assessments; and/or I have served as a mentor to employees of the organization. I have checked work in progress on a regular basis to ensure that deadlines are met; and/or I have evaluated and documented special competencies of employees in area of responsibility; and/or I have reviewed and monitored programs to make necessary adjustments as needed. I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Employee Development Manager must identify training needs in order to develop employee development programs that foster career progression. He/she is also responsible for ensuring instructional design applications are analyzed and evaluated on an ongoing basis to establish their quality and overall effectiveness.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified instructors and organized course materials for training classes; and/or I have modified an existing lesson plan to accommodate local needs; and/or I have made recommendations regarding a new training program. I have determined training standards of an employee who moved from one position to another; and/or I have ensured mandatory training courses were correctly assigned to a staff; and/or I have reviewed reports to ensure mandatory compliance. I have analyzed class evaluation forms and made modifications to curriculum or presentation as needed; and/or I have adapted guidelines, instructional methods, course materials, or training aids for use in existing training programs; and/or I have worked with a supervisor to identify a training course to improve employee performance. None of the above. 5 Employee Development Manager must be aware of all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively manage an employee development program.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a reviewer-in-charge for an employee development operational review; and/or I have provided guidance to new employee development staff regarding training policy and monitored their work to ensure compliance with policies and regulations; and/or I have participated as a member of an employee development program review team comparing current practice against policies and procedures. I have developed local office procedures for conducting training that complied with national policy; and/or I have ensured that those in collateral duty positions (i.e., Training Coach, self-defense instructor, firearms instructors etc.) have completed mandatory training; and/or I have explained training requirements to vendors interested in providing training to employees. I have reviewed policy to the application of specific Mandatory Training Standards; and/or I have determined appropriate mandatory certification to use based on position assignment; and/or I have assisted with updating policies or procedures based on review of the governing policies and regulations. None of the above. 6 Employee Development Manager must manage funds and equipment to ensure the training needs of the agency are met. He/she must be able to coordinate and prioritize efforts to ensure programs are completed as projected.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured training sign in sheets were provided and keyed; and/or I have served as an instructor; and/or I have ensured assigned instructors are properly prepared to instruct. I have rearranged training schedules to accommodate operational needs; and/or I have tracked training expenditures to ensure a positive balance; and/or I have purchased equipment and resources to support training programs. I have ensured proper use, maintenance, and return of training equipment; and/or I have developed training instructor or employee development staff schedules; and/or I have ensured facilities or designated class areas were available for training. None of the above. 7 Employee Development Manager communicates on a regular basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the public to management officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and/or persuade others on the mission and objective of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised department head/managers on the basic training policy requirements; and/or I have advised managers/supervisors on implementation of new personnel or training policies; and/or I have provided Labor Management Relations or performance evaluation training to managers; and/or I have discussed updated human resource policy at a department head meeting. I have provided advice or assistance to agency personnel on training or curriculum procedures; and/or I have provided formal training to co-worker on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures. I have taught training courses on human resources programs; and/or I have served as an instructor for a local training (i.e. Introduction to Correction Techniques Phase I, Annual Training, local leadership, etc.); and/or I have presented information at department meeting; and/or I have researched communication software programs to effectively manage and conduct training courses. None of the above. 8 Employee Development Manager is responsible for evaluating and interpreting laws, policies, and procedures relative to Employee Development program to identify training needs and develop training programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained data from national data/information sources to assist in training program planning activities; and/or I have evaluated and documented findings during a program review; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis and reporting of program assessments. I have recommended the adoption of a revised course outline or a new type of training aid; and/or I have ensured all required training programs were implemented; and/or I have served as a course instructor. I have advised management on employee development matters; and/or I have designed and implemented individual employee development projects; and/or I have developed local guidelines for Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I or other initial orientation programs. None of the above. 9 The Employee Development Manager is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. He/she directly supervises subordinate employee(s) and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have checked work in progress on a regular basis to ensure that deadlines are met; and/or I have evaluated and documented special competencies of employees in area of responsibility; and/or I have reviewed and monitored programs to make necessary adjustments as needed. I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).