Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education or experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have two full years of graduate education or a master`s degree directly related to the work of the position which meets the specialized experience requirement. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience includes: draftsperson, surveying technician, construction estimator, physical science technician, or mathematical technician. (Experience in a trade or craft may be credited as specialized experience when the work provided intensive knowledge of engineering principles, techniques, methods, and precedents.) I possess a combination of two full years of graduate education or a master`s degree and specialized experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 2 Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system related to the work of this position? For this position specialized experience is defined as: performing routine maintenance on high voltage systems; preparing plans, specifications and cost estimates for in house electrical projects including load computation and distribution system lay out. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best reflect your experience and knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas. I have limited knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas. My work is closely reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formula. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have gained knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits by courses I have taken. I have extensive knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formula. I have supervised performance of this task and/ or have been consulted by others as an expert performing this task. 4 In which of the following states do you currently possess an electrical trade license? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Maryland Virginia Other states None of the above 5 Which of the following certificates do you currently possess within the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Substation NETA – National Electrical Testing Association Cable Splicing SCADA – Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Manufacturer trained on generator operation or repair None of the above 6 Do you have experience working as a High Voltage Electrician? Experience includes installing, modifying, testing, repairing, troubleshooting and maintaining transformers, automatic and manual switching gear and motors, cables, switches, circuit breakers, mechanical and electronic recording instruments, mechanical and electronic control systems, and other circuit elements. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following responses best describe your highest level of trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On-the-job training Master Electrician None of the above 8 Which of the following types of electrical equipment do you have experience testing and performing preventive maintenance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Single phase motors Electrical controllers Three phase motors Transformers Network protectors Generators Medium voltage switch gear Lower voltage switch gear Medium voltage cable testing Protective relays None of the above 9 In which of the following building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 10 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines Auto-Cadd None of the above 11 Which of the following statement reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical, or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. Grade: 11 1 Do you have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position?&nbsp; This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following statements best reflect your experience and knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas. I have limited knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas. My work is closely reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formula. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have gained knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits by courses I have taken. I have extensive knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formula. I have supervised performance of this task and/ or have been consulted by others as an expert performing this task. 3 In which of the following states do you currently possess an electrical trade license? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Maryland Virginia Other states None of the above 4 Which of the following certificates do you currently possess within the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Substation NETA – National Electrical Testing Association Cable Splicing SCADA – Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Manufacturer trained on generator operation or repair None of the above 5 Do you have experience working as a High Voltage Electrician? Experience includes installing, modifying, testing, repairing, troubleshooting and maintaining transformers, automatic and manual switching gear and motors, cables, switches, circuit breakers, mechanical and electronic recording instruments, mechanical and electronic control systems, and other circuit elements. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following responses best describe your highest level of trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On-the-job training Master Electrician None of the above 7 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions or make recommendations for design change and/or substitution of materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following types of electrical equipment do you have experience testing and performing preventive maintenance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Single phase motors Electrical controllers Three phase motors Transformers Network protectors Generators Medium voltage switch gear Lower voltage switch gear Medium voltage cable testing Protective relays None of the above 9 In which of the following building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 10 Do you have experience managing analytical projects to identify patterns and trends using computer-based software? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines Auto-Cadd None of the above 12 Which of the following responses reflect your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed it on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical, or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 13 Which of the following responses best describes your level of involvement in project meetings? Answer to this question is required I have attended project meetings to receive instructions. I have participated in project meetings by offering input. I have assisted in the coordination and management of project meetings. I have coordinated and led project meetings. I do not have experience with project meetings but am willing to learn. Grade: 12 1 Do you have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to grade&nbsp;11 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position?&nbsp; This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following statements best reflect your experience and knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas. I have limited knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formulas. My work is closely reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formula. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have gained knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits by courses I have taken. I have extensive knowledge of current, voltage, resistance, Ohm’s Law, series and parallel circuits, and advanced electrical formula. I have supervised performance of this task and/ or have been consulted by others as an expert performing this task. 3 In which of the following states do you currently possess an electrical trade license? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Maryland Virginia Other states None of the above 4 Which of the following certificates do you currently possess within the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Substation NETA – National Electrical Testing Association Cable Splicing SCADA – Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Manufacturer trained on generator operation or repair None of the above 5 Which of the following responses reflect your experience and/or knowledge of the safety and NFPA 70E applications? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in determining arc flash boundary. I have experience in determining shock approach boundary. I have knowledge of complex LOTO (lockout/tag out) procedures. I have knowledge of personal protective equipment. I have knowledge of basic LOTO (lockout/tag out) procedures. I do not have experience and/or knowledge of any of the above items. 6 Do you have experience working as a High Voltage Electrician? Experience includes installing, modifying, testing, repairing, troubleshooting and maintaining transformers, automatic and manual switching gear and motors, cables, switches, circuit breakers, mechanical and electronic recording instruments, mechanical and electronic control systems, and other circuit elements. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following responses best describe your highest level of trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On-the-job training Master Electrician None of the above 8 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions or make recommendations for design change and/or substitution of materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience producing and/or reviewing riser diagrams, load calculations, and power distribution plans for conformance with electrical engineering professional best practices, technical correctness, code compliance, and conformance with project programmatic requirements for building designed and construction? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following types of electrical equipment do you have experience testing and performing preventive maintenance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Single phase motors Electrical controllers Three phase motors Transformers Network protectors Generators Medium voltage switch gear Lower voltage switch gear Medium voltage cable testing Protective relays None of the above 11 In which of the following building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 12 Do you have experience managing analytical projects to identify patterns and trends using computer-based software? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following statements best describe your experience managing calendars and suspense dates to provide support services? Answer to this question is required I have experience working on individual projects and assignments that are of high priority to the organization. My assignments are generally completed with assigned suspense dates. I manage calendars and multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In addition to managing calendars and multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period, I negotiate suspense date, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as of my work group. I do not have experience managing calendars and working on assignments with suspense dates. 14 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines Auto-Cadd None of the above 15 Which of the following responses reflect your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports, or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed it on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical, or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 16 Which of the following responses best describes your level of involvement in project meetings? Answer to this question is required I have attended project meetings to receive instructions. I have participated in project meetings by offering input. I have assisted in the coordination and management of project meetings. I have coordinated and led project meetings. I do not have experience with project meetings but am willing to learn. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing statements of work for evaluating proposals and participating in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable levels for electrical design services? Answer to this question is required I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for electrical design services as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education, or training in preparing statements of work and estimates or participated in technical discussions. I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussion to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for electrical design services on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in preparing statements of work for electrical design services estimates and participating in technical discussions, but have not yet performed this task on the job. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have a valid driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.