Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions at GS-4 or equivalent and above): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include technical work in: drafting, surveying construction estimating, physical science, mathematics, aerospace, architecture, chemicals, electrical or mechanical systems, mining, petroleum, or nuclear systems. Experience in a trade or craft may be credited as specialized experience when the work provided intensive knowledge of engineering principles, techniques, methods, and precedents. Examples are trade positions with substantial developmental, test, or design responsibilities such as: Planner and estimator who analyzed designs for production purposes. Instrument maker or model maker who performed design or development work on devices fabricated. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the next lowest grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 The Engineering Technician must be knowledgeable of elements and methods of various construction and utility disciplines, construction drawings, and specification writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established lines of grades of buildings and utility lines; and/or I have monitored and reported progress of construction/renovation; and/or I have advised institutions/field locations as to the equipment/materials that would be necessary to accomplish tasks. I have interpreted regulations as written; and/or I have monitored progress of construction/renovation; and/or I have selected appropriate equipment for work site in order to accomplish construction tasks. I have assisted in the preparation of formulation of shop-drawings; and/or I have determined appropriate equipment needed to accomplish renovation/construction tasks; and/or I have determined positive/negative (status) progress of construction renovations. None of the above. 4.2 The Engineering Technician must be able to work up sketches and drawings of existing structures, and drafts of proposed projects as a basis for production of finished drawings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted computer drawings and applications; and/or I have supervised inmates in use of stand-alone drafting system; and/or I have instructed inmates in use of stand-alone Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system; and/or I have during trips to construction sites, as assigned, photographed construction site; and/or I have assisted in preparing designs and specifications for projects. I have extracted information from drawings and reconstructed measurements and designs in order to utilize space most effectively and submitted for review; and/or I have prepared detailed computer drafting and applications and submitted for review; and/or I have drafted and presented plans for institution renovation. I have researched National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines, Building Codes, and other sources of information and applied those findings to evaluate possible deficiencies; and/or I have recommended changes to supervisor to overcome any deficiencies; and/or I have utilized experience in computer aided drafting and applications for the preparation of designs and specifications for projects. None of the above. 4.3 The Engineering Technician must be proficient in working with computer programs and computerized maintenance software, specifically, Computerized Maintenance Management Software (CMMS), which is a program used agency-wide that manages minor work requests processed through the facility office. He/she must be able to organize and evaluate a variety of documents for the various construction/renovation projects. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed data into specific database; and/or I have distributed reports using agency email system; and/or I have edited letters or memoranda using word processing software; and/or I have entered data onto a spreadsheet using and existing software program; and/or I have used a digital camera for security documentation; and/or I have drafted specifications and estimates; and/or I have used Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system. I have edited a report using word processing software; and/or I have instructed others in the use of and automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software and other computer programs; and/or I have developed spreadsheets using Microsoft Software programs; and/or I have produced professional quality draft specifications and estimates using a nationally recognized estimator tool; and/or I have, after completion of drawings on automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software, plotted to obtain hard copy; and/or I have formulated construction documents from shop drawings; and/or I have set/used appropriate configuration of plotter to obtain proper/desired results using the Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system; and/or I have utilized Bureau Life Cycle Cost Analyst Software. I have utilized the automated Computer-Aided Design (AutoCAD) software, including use of digitizer, mouse, and plotters; and/or I have utilized complex computer programs and automated maintenance software; and/or I have reviewed, evaluated and presented construction documents and project specifications for approval by supervisors or approving officials; and/or I have written specifications and estimates using a nationally recognized estimator tool; and/or I have regularly produced construction drawings from shop drawings in the use of a computerized automated drawing system. None of the above. 4.4 The Engineering Technician must be able to apply engineering fundamentals and applications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have appropriately applied National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines 101 life Safety Codes as it pertains to building construction; and/or I have utilized project management principles as it relates to engineering and architectural functions; and/or I have documented daily activities on a daily construction log. I have coordinated work of other trade foremen; and/or I have led/assisted others in interpretation and application of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Guidelines 101 life Safety Codes as it pertains to building construction; and/or I have utilized practical experience in project management as it relates to engineering and architectural fundamentals; and/or I have documented construction/utility issues related to a specific construction phase and kept supervisor notified. I have worked in a specialized commercial building or project management; and/or I have taught classes in Life Safety Codes and assisted others in interpretation; and/or I have researched seismic, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), life safety and other local, state and federal codes in relation to construction conditions; and/or I have managed project relating to engineering and architectural fundamentals; and/or I have interpreted and applied project management fundamentals. None of the above. 4.5 The Engineering Technician must interact with various individuals, such as consultants, contractors, and officials in addition to co-workers and supervisors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given a project update during an office meeting; and/or I have interacted with a lower-level manager while involved in a project; and/or I have conveyed the results of a design/contract documents review. I have observed an inspection of a phase of construction project and communicated results with project team and/or supervisor; and/or I have communicated construction security issues to the supervisor when needed; and/or I have contacted vendors for pricing information; and/or I have placed government purchase card orders via telephone. I have interacted with contractors during an on-site project visit; and/or I have interacted with a senior manager while involved in a project; and/or I have presented information during a construction conference; and/or I have made recommendations in the selection process of consultants, contract managers, firms, and construction contractors for a project. None of the above. 4.6 The Engineering Technician must be able to conduct cost estimates in order to properly monitor costs incurred during a construction project. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized square footage take-offs for cost estimating; and/or I have implemented a working familiarity with cost estimating manuals; and/or I have implemented basic cost estimate methodology. I have contacted vendors for detailed pricing information; and/or I have accessed the internet to obtain pricing information; and/or I have researched Robert Snow Means (RSMeans) for current building construction information. I have performed work which included estimating operations; and/or I have performed methods involved and the time required to complete each phase of specific project; and/or I have monitored various types and capacities of required equipment, cost of operation, maintenance, material types, quantities, tax, and other costs. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).