Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts and license&nbsp;or registration&nbsp;for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration requirement, you must have one year of professional nursing experience or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Nurses must have a knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures. They must be able to apply the knowledge to daily patient care and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed glucose checks; and/or I have performed single dressing changes; and/or I have taken and recorded vital signs; and/or I have interviewed patients by completing histories; and/or I have administered oral medications and observed affect on patient. I have conducted patient interviews for medical history and assessment; and/or I have presented discharge instructions to patients; and/or I have conducted telephone triage or post-procedure follow-up; and/or I have obtained vital signs; and/or I have performed preparatory procedures such as pre-surgical scrubs and EKGs. I have provided appropriate PICC line (intraveneous catheter) or central line care; and/or I have started IVs; and/or I have administered and monitored IV fluids; and/or I have administered oxygen; and/or I have administered blood transfusions; and/or I have provided and updated immunizations, or allergy treatments and performed complex dressing changes. None of the above. 5 Nurses must have knowledge of general safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment, understand isolation procedures, universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided care to patients in different types of isolation using Universal Precautions; and/or I have participated and provided leadership in evaluating and conducting hospital fire drills; and/or I have provided treatment in a hospital setting to patients with blood borne or airborne diseases requiring protective equipment. I have worn gloves to perform injections; and/or I have completed dressing changes; and/or I have washed hands prior to completing basic vital sign checks and other nursing procedures. I oversaw nursing assistants or LPNs in the application of infection control procedures; and/or I have utilized proper sterile techniques and procedures when providing pre and post-operative care and assisted surgeons and registered nurses in operating room activities. I have treated patients with contagious diseases like shingles or chickenpox; and/or I have changed or cleansed infected wounds or sores while wearing gloves and masks; and/or I have monitored HIV+ patients for evidence of opportunistic infections; and/or I have directly observed medication therapy in TB patients; and/or I have managed infectious waste, sharps and linens in accordance to policy. None of the above. 6 Nurses must have the ability to assess patients' health care status and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assessed patient's knowledge of procedures and participated in the informed consent process; and/or I have verified completion of procedures preparations (NPO status, bowel prep, medications, surgical scrub); and/or I have obtained information regarding allergies or previous adverse reactions to anesthesia. I have assessed and coordinated clinical care such as performing patient vital signs, medical histories, and height and weight checks; and/or I have monitored skin integrity of bed-ridden patients; and/or I have assessed the nutritional needs of patients. I have met the needs of patients with complex, chronic conditions and required specific medical care and/or treatment; and/or I have monitored post-dialysis needs of patients; and/or I have monitored blood sugars of unstable diabetic patients; and/or I have provided intervention during a hypertensive crisis. None of the above. 7 Nurses must be able to communicate orally, conduct meetings/training sessions, inform others of patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have informed the charge nurses, other nursing staff, or doctors about the progress or condition of the patient and courses of treatment to improve the condition; and/or I have exchanged patient information with other medical professionals while working as a nursing assistant or nursing student; and/or I have provided comfort to patients. I have provided a patient update at the shift, reported to nurses or doctors for the continued and appropriate care of the patient. Typical examples would include communications with pharmacist, dietitians, physical therapists and other health care providers at multi-disciplinary treatment meetings or staff meetings. I have addressed patient concerns; and/or I have answered questions of the patient and/or family; and/or I have completed a college course in speech communications; and/or I have reported progress and patient condition to other patient care personnel. None of the above. 8 Nurses must possess the ability to document patient assessments and nursing interventions accurately. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented basic patient care and condition as gained in clinical rotations of a generic nursing program under the supervision of a RN; and/or I have updated nursing care plans; and/or I have completed work orders and incident reports. I have documented patient care and condition in the medical record; and/or I have completed the required forms of the health care information system accurately; and/or I have accurately recorded medication administration, Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived test results, and vital signs. I have documented patient assessments, nursing interventions and condition in a narrative Subjective Objective Assessment Plan (SOAP) or Subjective Objective Assessment Plan Intervention Evaluation(SOAPIE) format; and/or I have documented the administration of a variety of medications and the patient's response to the medication; and/or I have prepared a nursing care plan for a patient. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration&nbsp;requirement, you must have the required specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license&nbsp; documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Nurses must have a knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures. They must be able to apply the knowledge to daily patient care and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the care and assessment of non-critical patients; and/or I have provided comprehensive treatment to less serious illnesses or injuries; and/or I have managed a variety of drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors' orders and overseeing the work of assistants, and student nurses. I have performed glucose checks; and/or I have completed single dressing changes; and/or I have taken and recorded vital signs; and/or I have interviewed patients by completing histories; and/or I have administered oral medications and observed affect on patient. I have provided appropriate PICC line (intravenous catheter) or central line care; and/or I have started IVs; and/or I have administered and monitored IV fluids; and/or I have administered oxygen; and/or I have administered blood transfusions; and/or I have provided and updated immunizations, or allergy treatments and performed complex dressing changes. None of the above. 5 Nurses must have knowledge of general safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment, understanding isolation procedures, and universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case and alerted staff to ensure appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhered to established safety procedures. I have treated patients with contagious diseases like shingles or chickenpox; and/or I have changed or cleansed infected wounds or sores while wearing gloves and masks; and/or I have monitored HIV+ patients for evidence of opportunistic infections; and/or I have managed infectious wastes, sharps and linens. I have participated and provided leadership in evaluating and conducting hospital fire drills; and/or I have provided treatment in a hospital setting to patients with blood borne or airborne diseases requiring protective equipment available; and/or I oversaw nursing assistants or LPNs in the application of infection control procedures. None of the above. 6 Nurses must have the ability to assess patients' health care status and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (e.g. a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have administered/prescribed oral medications, (e.g. hypodermic injections and intravenous feedings). I have assessed and coordinated clinical care such as performing patient vital signs, medical histories, and height and weight checks; and/or I have monitored skin integrity of bed-ridden patients; and/or I have assessed nutritional needs of patients. I have met the needs of patients with complex, chronic conditions, requiring specific medical care and/or treatment; and/or I have monitored post-dialysis needs of patients; and/or I have monitored blood glucose levels of unstable diabetic patients; and/or I have provided intervention during a hypertensive crisis. None of the above. 7 Nurses must be able to communicate orally, conducting meetings, training sessions, for the purpose of informing others of patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have informed the charge nurses, other nursing staff, or doctors about the progress or condition of the patient and courses of treatment to improve the condition; and/or I have exchanged patient information with other medical professionals while working as a nursing assistant or nursing student. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or as a charge nurse or team leader, I have facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. I have provided a patient update at the shift report to nurses or doctors for the continued and appropriate care of the patient; and/or I have provided information to other health care providers at multi-disciplinary treatment or staff meetings. None of the above. 8 Nurses must possess the ability to document patient assessments and apply nursing interventions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented patient assessments, nursing interventions and condition in a narrative Subjective Objective Assessment Plan (SOAP) or Subjective Objective Assessment Plan Invention Evaluation (SOAPIE) format; and/or I have documented the administration of a variety of medications and the patient's response to the medication; and/or I have prepared a nursing care plan for a patient. I have initiated and updated care plans; and/or I have documented patient education; and/or I have provided written reports to committees regarding infectious disease, safety, or quality management; and/or I have developed nursing unit guidelines; and/or I have written articles for hospital newsletter; and/or I have developed written materials for staff education. I have documented patient care and condition in the medical record; and/or I have completed the required forms of the health care information system accurately; and/or I have accurately recorded medication administration, Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived test results and vital signs. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration&nbsp;requirements, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license&nbsp;will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Nurses must have a knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures, and must be able to apply the knowledge to daily patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided appropriate PICC line (intravenous Catheter) or central line care; and/or I have administered and monitored IV fluids, oxygen, blood transfusions; and/or I have provided and updated immunizations, or allergy treatments; and/or I have performed complex dressing changes, Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived tests; and/or I have inserted Foley catheters; and/or I have provided wound care. I have administered infrequently used or special medications such as chemotherapy medications, continuous IV medication infusions; and/or I have set up and operated equipment such as cardiac monitors, arterial lines respirators, defibrillators, and endotracheal suction equipment. I have provided minor yet comprehensive treatment to less serious illnesses or injuries; and/or I have managed nasal-pharyngeal and gastric suction as well as a variety of other drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors' orders; and/or I have overseen the work of assistants, LPN's and student nurses. I have observed post-operative and seriously ill patients for adverse conditions and reactions; and/or I have provided emergency treatment to accident victims; and/or I have provided resuscitative measures in the case of a cardiac or respiratory arrest. I have provided holistic approach to patient care; and/or I have evaluated patient response to nursing care and intervention; and/or I have conducted patient education in regards to acute or chronic illness, and preventive health measures. None of the above. 5 Nurses must have knowledge of general safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment, understanding isolation procedures, and universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have practiced Universal Precautions; and/or I have provided treatment in a hospital setting to patients with blood borne or airborne diseases requiring extensive personal protective equipment; and/or I have overseen nursing assistants or LPNs in the application of infection control procedures. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case and alerted staff and ensured that appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhering to established safety procedures. I have completed dressing changes on HIV or immune-compromised patients; and/or I have administered intravenous medication to a patient with blood borne pathogens; and/or I have trained nursing assistants, LPNs and RNs on the protocol for blood spills, the dangers, and the proper procedures utilized for cleanup; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on an extensive basis; and/or I have recommended adopted safety practices on prevention of needle sticks and contamination. None of the above. 6 Nurses must have the ability to assess patients needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and subacute beds for patients with multi-system organ failures such as end stage liver disease, respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure; and/or I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management. I have met the needs of patients with chronic conditions requiring specific medical care and/or treatment; and/or I have observed patient's conditions; and/or I have provided required nursing care. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (e.g.a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have administered prescribed oral medications, hypodermic injections and intravenous feedings. None of the above. 7 Nurses must be able to communicate orally,&nbsp;conduct meetings and training sessions and inform others of patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conveyed information at conferences with health care officials, at public health forums, or with officials in private organizations; and/or I have given presentations at nursing conferences; and/or I have taught college courses to nursing students; and/or I have taught Basic Life Support in the community; and/or I have served as a facilitator at a public meeting. I have provided a patient update on the shift report to nurses or doctors for the continued and appropriate care of the patient; and/or I have communicated with pharmacist, dietitians, physical therapists and other health care providers at multi-disciplinary treatment meetings or staff meetings; and/or I have provided instructions to the family of a patient on proper care. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or as a charge nurse or team leader, I have facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. None of the above. 8 Nurses must have knowledge of rehabilitative nursing pre and post operative care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted a variety of rehabilitative patients with activities of daily living; and/or I have worked with patients requiring rehabilitation due to stroke or trauma; and/or I have prepared patients for surgical and/or diagnostic procedures; and/or I have provided care to patients who have suffered strokes, trauma, neurological and other conditions that caused decreased mobility. I have implemented the plan of care; and/or I have made patient referrals to physical therapy and/or observed the patient for progress or lack of progress in therapy; and/or I have recognized adverse reaction to surgery or complications from existing medical conditions. I have completed a nursing rotation as a student nurse on a rehabilitative or pre or post-operative floor; and/or I have worked with rehabilitative patients as a float nurse to a rehabilitative or pre or postoperative unit or as a nursing assistant; and/or I have prepared patients for tests, examinations and treatment. I have made recommendations for changes and improvements to enhance the care of rehabilitative and surgical patients, (i.e. referrals to other disciplines such as dietetics, respiratory therapy, social work, and chaplaincy); and/or I have provided recommendations for continued care upon discharge. None of the above. Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, and meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and education requirements for the position? Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and&nbsp;educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Nurses must have an extensive knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures and be able to apply it therapeutically to meet patient needs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have observed and assessed the patient conditions and determined the proper course of action; and/or I have administered infrequently used or special medications (e.g. chemotherapy medications, continuous IV medication infusions); and/or I have initiated an emergency response and operated special equipment. I have provided minor yet comprehensive treatment to less serious illnesses or injuries; and/or I have managed nasal-pharyngeal and gastric suction as well as a variety of other drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors' orders and oversaw the work of assistants, LPN's and student nurses. I have set up and operated equipment (e.g. cardiac monitors, arterial lines respirators, defibrillators, endotracheal suction equipment); and/or I have closely observed post-operative and seriously ill patients for adverse conditions and reactions; and/or I have provided emergency treatment to accident victims or provided resuscitative measures. I have planned, implemented and evaluated nursing care; and/or I have analyzed patient outcomes to determine effectiveness of interventions; and/or I have assimilated quality management data into the planning and development of nursing care; and/or I have performed nurse care surveys as prescribed by the JCAHO and initiated corrective actions. I have implemented holistic patient care procedures as outlined in the patient care plan; and/or I have reported and/or documented patient responses to nursing care; and/or I have initiated and maintained intraveneous therapy. I have coordinated multi-disciplinary teams to update treatment plans and completed corrective actions; and/or I have participated in multiple emergency and code 45 situations; and/or I have taught nursing care principles, practices and procedures to new nurses. None of the above. 5 Nurses must have thorough knowledge of safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment along with an understanding of infection control procedures and universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed dressing changes on an HIV or immun-compromised patients; and/or I have administered intravenous medication to a patient with blood borne pathogens; and/or I have trained nursing assistants, LPNs and RNs on the protocol for blood spills, the dangers, and the proper procedures utilized for cleanup; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on an extensive basis. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case, alerted staff and ensured that appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures and precautions; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have participated in fire and disaster drills in accordance to safety department policy. I have provided care and/or recommendations while working as an infection control nurse in a hospital, clinic or community based setting or as a member of a committee specializing in infection control and disease prevention issues; and/or I have developed and provided training sessions on nosocomial infections, blood borne or airborne diseases, or provided instruction to patients on managing their infectious or chronic disease. I have recommended safety practices on prevention of needle sticks and contamination that have been adopted; and/or I have monitored patient outcomes in regards to infectious disease management; and/or I have applied safety principles to patient care environment; and/or I have supervised subordinates on the nursing unit during fire and disaster drills. I have written procedures on nosocomial infections and disease prevention; and/or I have analyzed responses to fire and disaster drills to determine areas in need of improvement. None of the above. 6 Nurses must have the ability to assess patients' needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan. Experience gained must be in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed patient care plans and ensured corrective actions are initiated; and/or I have completed quality review of policies and procedures for care and treatment; and/or I have conveyed treatment team goals to obtain optimal patient compliance. I have developed, planned, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and subacute beds for patients with multi-system organ failures such as end stage liver disease, respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure. I have recognized patient deviations from normal and provided appropriate treatment and follow-up; and/or I have incorporated concepts of preventive health into assessment of patient needs and patient education; and/or I have revised plan of care based upon assessment of patient needs. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (e.g., a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have reported changes with patient status based upon observations and assessments. I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management; and/or I have developed individualized patient care plans based upon assessments, policies, guidelines and standards of practice. None of the above. 7 Nurses must have a comprehensive knowledge of rehabilitative nursing, pre- and post-operative care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or as a charge nurse or team leader, I have facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. I have conveyed information at conferences with health care officials, at public health forums, or with officials in private organizations; and/or I have given presentations at nursing conferences; and/or I have taught college courses to nursing students; and/or I have taught Basic Life Support in the community; and/or I have served as a facilitator at a public meeting. I have held the position of Supervisory Clinical Nurse, Rehabilitation Nurse Specialist, Team Leader/Charge Nurse in a nursing unit (i.e. Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU) or Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU); and/or I have developed and coordinated care plans for rehabilitative, pre and post-operative patients; and/or I have provided staff and patient education for implementation of care plans. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).