Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 14 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience leading and/or facilitating operational and strategic planning meetings? Answer to this question is required I have assisted senior staff to facilitate strategic planning meetings (e.g., documented decisions, compiled data). I have independently facilitated strategic planning meetings with senior managers. I have independently facilitated strategic planning meetings with high level executives. I have led and/or independently facilitated strategic planning meetings with other stakeholders and other organizations None of the above. 3 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. None of the above 4 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward accomplishment of organizational goals. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team. I have extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, and/or direction as needed. 5 Select&nbsp;the proficiency levels that describe your ability to bring about strategic change to meet organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Designed approaches and procedures to develop a strategic operations plan supporting key agency goals and objectives. Established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. Conducted a review of the agency's core mission and gathered information from relevant sources to support development of a strategic plan. Implemented strategic objectives and developed metrics to assess attainment of work unit goals. None of the above 6 Do you have experience with Quality Control and Quality Assurance supporting facilities related projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience analyzing and determining work based on manpower requirements and equipment needed to maintain high-level operations in a multi-facility complex. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have trained others to interpret and apply safety standards/practices. I have interpreted and applied safety standards/practices with assistance from a manager or more senior employee I have completed training related to safety standards/practices, but have not applied them on the job. I do not have training or experience interpreting or applying safety standards/practices 8 Describe how you have developed and implemented long-range goals and/or objectives (i.e., a five-year plan)? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Select the option that best describes your experience providing guidance and interpretation to managers on labor and employee relations issues. Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training performing this work. I have experience performing this work across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I have independently performed this work including in unusual or complex situations. I have advised and instructed others in carrying out this work. 10 Describe your experience planning and scheduling workload on a weekly, monthly and annual basis? Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Select the documents you have independently written. Answer to this question is required Reports of Findings Cost-benefit studies White papers Slide content (e.g., PowerPoint presentations) Bulletins Performance Plans, Evaluations and Performance Improvement Plans Technical and non-technical report versions on the same issue Articles in research team journals and/or Market research studies Scopes of Work or Task Orders Business correspondence (e.g., letters, emails) None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.