Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Select the response that most closely matches your experience directing the work of employees performing custodial or general maintenance duties. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience directing the work of employees. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I provided instruction or assistance to employees about how to perform a task or complete a work order. I assigned work to employees and provided instruction about how to perform tasks or complete a work order. I assigned work to employees, provided instruction about the way to complete a work order, and monitored completed work for quality. 3 Do you have experience providing instructions and guidance to individuals who perform custodial work? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising workers who perform custodial duties? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed custodial work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 5 Which of the following tasks have you performed while supervising custodial work units? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for/or in collaboration with subordinates. Completed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinates. Worked with Human Resources Staff to resolve problems. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training and/or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Recommended personnel actions. Resolved complaints and grievances. None of the above 6 Have you explained policies and procedures to cleaning crew supervisors to improve the crew's performance? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience cleaning areas by emptying trash, dusting, or vacuuming. Answer to this question is required I have independently cleaned building areas in a building with high-profile customers (e.g., executives, celebrities). I have independently cleaned building areas. I have cleaned building areas with a senior employee present to check my work. I have cleaned areas as part of a volunteer, vocational, or home improvement project. None of the above. 8 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees performing cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees who perform cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees who perform cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees who perform cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 9 In which locations have you inspected the completion of cleaning tasks performed by laborer and custodial crews? Answer to this question is required Offices Restrooms Building Lobbies Police Kiosks Cafeteria Elevators Stair Wells Locker rooms/showers Committee Rooms Storage Areas Floors (i.e. hallways, corridors, stairs, etc.) None of the above 10 Which tools, equipment, and supplies have you maintained for crews? Answer to this question is required Vacuums Cleaning Chemicals Cleaning Charts Mops Brooms Personal protective equipment (e.g. gloves, masks) None of the above 11 Which tools have you used to perform custodial work? Answer to this question is required Mops Swiffer Mops Mop handles Buckets Dust pans Brooms Micro-mops Brushes Mop buckets with wringers None of the above 12 Which of the following tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Summarized work performed Completed disciplinary forms Completed absentee reports Developed work plans Researched equipment Created/updated work orders Ordered supplies Documented resolution of client concerns None of the above 13 Have you implemented safety procedures for a cleaning crew (e.g., Handling cleaning chemicals, Personal Protective Equipment)? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Which of the following tasks have you performed to ensure compliance with safety procedures? Answer to this question is required Ordered personal protective equipment for cleaning crews. Instructed employees on safe use of personal protective equipment. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures and job hazards analysis with employees Inspected work sites for job hazards. None of the above. 15 Which of the following safety policies have you explained to a cleaning crew? Answer to this question is required Use of personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Chemical safety procedures Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Job Hazards Analysis OSHA Right to Know None of the above 16 Which supplies have you used to clean/maintain buildings? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Cleaning chemicals Sanitizing solutions Cleaning brushes Gloves Masks Rags Dusters None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.