Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Applicants, MUST: have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education; AND be certified as radiographers in their field. The following meet these requirements: Persons employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel prior to the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986) who show evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others. OR Persons first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel after the effective date of the regulation who (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, provided that such persons show evidence of training, experience, and competence as determined by OPM or the employing agency. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in 1 and 2 above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in 1 or 2, however I meet the requirements described in A above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in 1 or 2, however I meet the requirements described in B above. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must also have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit proof of current, active and unrestricted license for verification. Applicants must also submit evidence of completing a program that certifies them to administer X-rays or perform radiologic procedures. Evidence of program completion includes a transcript or documentation that includes your course work in administering X-rays or performing radiologic procedures. Self certification of program completion will NOT be accepted. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist must have a basic knowledge of anatomy and physiology to identify the appearance and functioning of the systems susceptible to radiologic illumination and changes to systems and organs caused by common medical diseases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have demonstrated knowledge of diagnostic ultrasound, CAT scans or nuclear procedures; and/or I have experience with exposures techniques and factors affecting exposure; and/or I have served as a lead technologist in a clinical setting. I have operated radiographic equipment to produce films of spines, skull, chest, pelvis, abdomen and extremities; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of exposure techniques and factors affecting exposure; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of anatomy for use with position for each procedure. I have assisted higher level staff member performing Fluoroscopic exams and Intravenous Pyelogram procedures; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of the required number of exposures and position for each procedure; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of contrast agent reactions and contra indications for using contrast media. None of the above. 4 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist must perform a broad range of radiologic procedures utilizing sound judgement based on established criteria and standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently made routine radiographic examinations of head, trunk, and extremities; and/or I have assisted in the administration of contrast material and prepared contrast media; and/or I have determined the exact location and depth of an object to be studied by use of the standard “spot” film technique; and/or I have experience and knowledge of at least 4 of specialized exams such as tomograms, myelograms, arthrograms, Intravenous pyelogram, fluoroscopic exams, and operative cholangiograms. I have under supervision of lead technologist, experience and gained knowledge of specialized exams such as tomograms, myelograms, arthrograms, Intravenous pyelogram, fluoroscopic exams, and operative cholangiograms; and/or I have assisted a higher level staff member with setting up sterile fields; and/or I have prepared and administered contrast material; and/or I have prepared film processing chemicals; and/or I have familiarity with operating room procedures, performed by using portable x-ray machine. I have independently performed specialized exams such as tomograms, myelograms, arthrograms, Intravenous Polygram, fluoroscopic exams and operative cholangiograms; and/or I have set up sterile fields, prepared contrast media and calculated exact amount of contrast media to inject; and/or I have checked diagnostic values and methods used in conducting examinations of lower level technicians. None of the above. 5 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist must have knowledge of Quality Assurance for radiology to identify and correct technical problems of radiologic equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the daily performance equipment function testing under direct supervision of higher level staff; and/or I have assisted a higher level staff member in collecting and analyzing data used to interpret equipment function testing; and/or I have assisted a higher level staff member in visual and manual Quality Control checks. I have performed daily equipment function testing; and/or I have interpreted and analyzed data of equipment function test and took corrective action; and/or I have used sensitometer or densitometer and analyzed data from this equipment to plot graphs to determine whether the processor is operating properly; and/or I have performed Quality Control testing such as screen film contact test and repeat analysis. I have performed daily performance equipment function tests under little supervision; and/or I have interpreted equipment function test data and took corrective action under little supervision; and/or I have assisted a higher level staff member using equipment such as sensitometer or densitometer; and/or I have assisted in plotting data derived from a sensitometer or densitometer to determine whether the processor is operating properly; and/or I have assisted a higher level staff member in performing screen film contact test and gathering data for a repeat analysis. None of the above. 6 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist must have knowledge of radiation protection standards, devices, and techniques including concepts of accumulated dosage and genetic changes, effects of radiation on living organisms, and the effects of x-ray techniques on patient and operator exposure in order to assure that adequate safeguards are maintained, to recognize when changes in equipment or procedures might result in increased exposure, and to recommend methods to prevent such exposure. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have demonstrated knowledge of policies concerning inspection of protective devices; and/or I have successfully completed course study regarding policies, duties and regulations in radiation safety; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of policies regarding staff usage of radiation dosimetry badges; and/or I have participated in the collection of data for a radiation safety program. I have performed progressively more responsible duties of monitoring a radiation safety program; and/or I have coordinated institutional radiation safety activities in accordance with radiation safety policies, procedures and regulations established by various governing agencies; and/or I have performed inspections on protective devices and reported this information to supervisor; and/or I have monitored personnel radiation exposure records. I have assisted a radiation safety officer with the institution radiation safety activities; and/or I have successfully completed course study regarding testing of protective devices and data analysis, in addition to courses related to policies, duties and regulations in radiation safety; and/or I have assisted the radiation safety officer with monitoring staff usage of radiation dosimetry badges; and/or I have assisted the radiation safety officer with the inspection of protective devices. None of the above. 7 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist&nbsp;are responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate accrediting and regulatory agency guidelines with respect to procedure manuals, equipment instrumentation, maintenance, quality control and department function.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted a higher level staff member in gathering, analyzing, and preparing information which was used in determining the quality of work in a radiology setting; and/or I have assisted in the gathering of data used in a presentation of information pertaining to JCAHO, either formally or informally, to medical staff, supervisor or others; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of documentation manuals or policy and procedures guidelines which are incorporated within the agency; and/or I have maintained, distributed and transferred reports and films in compliance with regulations and policies. I have gathered, analyzed and prepared information which was used in determining the quality of work in a radiology setting; and/or I have presented data pertaining to radiology either formally or informally to medical staff, supervisor or others, such as quality assurance issues, audits, or reviews; and/or I have prepared documents, manuals or policies and procedure guidelines which are incorporated within the agency; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of accrediting/regulatory agency requirements and standards applicable to radiology in a federal, state, local or private setting. I have assisted a higher level staff member in gathering information needed for a JCAHO audit and reviewing guidelines for compliance; and/or I have assisted a higher level staff member prepare a response for JCAHO; and/or I have handled routine questions and problems independently; and/or I have distributed and transferred reports and films in compliance with regulations and policies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).