Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of and experience in current and emerging technologies? Answer to this question is required I have experience using a broad range of digital tools and applications, online analysis techniques and tools, emerging technologies, and industry trends specializing in education instruction, web development, information architecture, and audience engagement. I have experience using a broad range of digital tools and applications, online analysis techniques and tools, emerging technologies, and industry trends. I have knowledge of or training in digital tools and applications, and online analysis techniques and tools. I do not have knowledge of or experience in current or emerging technologies. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience planning and implementing digital outreach and engagement activities for education programs? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in planning and implementing digital outreach and engagement activities to support educational objectives. I have had education or training in planning and implementing digital outreach and engagement activities to support educational objectives, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have assisted in planning and implementing digital outreach and engagement activities to support educational objectives with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have helped plan and implement digital outreach and engagement activities to support educational objectives as a regular part of the job (independently and/or only under general supervision by a supervisor or senior employee). I have supervised and trained others in the planning and implementation of digital outreach and engagement activities to support educational objectives. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with social media-related tasks? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conceived, managed, and implemented a strategic social media campaign. I have provided social community insights and best practices via analysis of post engagement and response. I have communicated dense subject matter in length and style appropriate to social media best practices. I have managed live social media events such as an Instagram Livestream, Tweet Up, Instameet, and Tweetchat. I have created and managed a social media editorial calendar. I have monitored analytics, made recommendations and adjustments based on data. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with Internet, mobile, social media, and digital video and graphic production principles, practices, methods and technologies? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in the performance of this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with providing user training and project management support for digital projects? Answer to this question is required I have work experience assisting with user support and training for digital projects, and I have provided daily project management support and reporting assistance for my supervisor. I have work experience assisting with user support and training for digital projects including weekly project management support and reporting assistance for my supervisor. I have work experience assisting with user support and training for digital projects and have provided monthly or less frequent project management support and reporting assistance for my supervisor. I do not have related experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience applying project management methodologies and techniques for implementing advanced computer technologies and software applications? (Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have led a project team through the SDLC process for requirements gathering, designing, developing, deploying, operating, and maintaining a large-scale IT enterprise management system. I have led a project team through the SDLC process for requirements gathering, designing, developing, deploying, operating, and maintaining a large-scale IT enterprise management system. I have prepared project planning, reviews and work breakdown structures that are used in the planning, budgeting, execution, and control of software development projects. I have participated as a team member on a team which used the SDLC process for requirements gathering, designing, developing, deploying, operating, and maintaining a large-scale IT enterprise management system. None of the above 10 Which of the following project management methods are you proficient with? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Agile Waterfall Six Sigma Critical Chain Management Critical Path Method I do not have related experience. 11 Select the responses that best describe your experience communicating information in writing. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have communicated project or operations information to a broad distribution through a form such as e-mail I have written technical and non-technical reports to communicate a project’s progress I have written technical papers documenting research results for publication I have written documents intended to persuade others to adopt a position on a complex issue I have written documents on sensitive or contentious issues I have developed written materials on project related issues for briefings, meetings, or conferences I have communicated a task or project’s strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities in writing on a regular basis I have reviewed the written work of others for accuracy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences I have not held a position that required extensive written communication 12 Which of the following statements describes written communication that you have successfully prepared? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Correspondence with the general public. Correspondence with high ranking officials. Position and/or issue papers, especially on controversial issues. Policy analyses. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. None of the above. 13 Which of the following oral communication tasks do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have taught less experienced personnel. I have pre-briefed senior staff in preparation for decision meetings on programs under my purview. I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature such as standard archival services provided by the unit. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 14 Which of the following statement(s) describes the person-to-person communication or briefing skills you have used as a regular part of your job.(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific progrqmmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above. 15 Which of the following duties have you held relating to supervision? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interviewed and selected new employees. I have trained employees on-the-job. I have recommended and approved personnel actions for employees. I have limited supervisory experience. I have no supervisory experience. 16 Which of the following leadership functions have you successfully done in projects in which you have led or were assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed and set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have planned and delegated work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical accuracy, adequacy, and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. None of the above. 17 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance and constructive feedback to employees. I have established and ensured deadlines for employees were met. I have planned work to be accomplished by employees. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have led and motivated employees. None of the above. 18 Which of the following responses best describes your collaboration with others or work on teams to accomplish work projects? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated collegially with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in collegially collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects. I have collegially collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a central or major part of my work. I have collegially collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.