Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Administrator, Correctional Programs Branch, prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, and briefings for national level groups.&nbsp;He/she possesses comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, line staff, inmates and the general public.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented findings as a participant of an external audit; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations Memorandums; and/or I have written memorandums to inmates/staff to advise them of new policies or procedures. I have authored an article which was published in a national publication; and/or I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency which impacted/changed current laws and regulations; and/or I have designed and implemented a needs assessment plan for agency/organization staffing levels; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have written strategic plans; and/or I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to an external audit concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared position paper justifying decision made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural guide explaining laws or regulations in laymen terms. None of the above. 5 The Administrator, Correctional Programs Branch, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp;He/she possesses comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an oral brief during a congressional subcommittee meeting on issues having major organization/agency impact; and/or I have served as a chief negotiator with agency/organization union officials on national level bargaining issues/concerns; and/or I have chaired work groups tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization wide programs; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have represented agency at a community hearing regarding a proposal to build a correctional institution in the area; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have served in leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have served on labor negotiation team; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) and provided recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. I have participated on a work group which included members of the Executive Staff in other agencies; and/or I have assisted in representing the agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have gave interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given informal presentations to the Executive Staff/top management of an agency/organization; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding public affairs issues. None of the above. 6 The Administrator, Correctional Programs Branch, is responsible for reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans and programs for Correctional Program area programs.&nbsp;The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies with precision and confidence.&nbsp;He/she analyzes a variety of information and supplements creditable information from a variety of sources.&nbsp;He/she is required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed audits and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved programs; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have recommended methods to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations were maintained. None of the above. 7 The Administrator, Correctional Programs Branch, is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned branch programs, the coordination of branch mission and other related program activities and decision making which impacts overall operations.&nbsp;He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plans; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring program. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. None of the above. 8 The Administrator, Correctional Programs Branch, evaluates, develops and implements policies that ensure efficient management of institution operations and programs, and makes necessary changes to comply with Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) requirements, objectives and goals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed comprehensive reviews of division operations and made recommendations to realign responsibilities; and/or I have chaired a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have developed pilot projects regarding operational or security issues; and/or I have worked as a supervisor/manager at more than one security level institution; and/or I have worked as an Administrator in the Central or Regional Office involved with policy development or oversight of institution operations. I have acted as Associate Warden at an institution for an extended period of time; and/or I have participated in a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired an internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for an institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. None of the above. 9 The Administrator, Correctional Programs Branch, frequently interacts with Congressional liaisons, Department of Justice (DOJ) and Bureau of Prisons (BOP) staff on critical and/or complex correctional issues.&nbsp;He/she possesses the knowledge of and ability to interpret and apply correctional legislation and its impact to Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) operations.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with local Congressional, Judicial or Department staff in researching, implementing or explaining the impact of legislation on Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) operations; and/or I have performed a task or has been a member of the Forward Thinking work group or Re-engineering initiative which significantly contributed to the creation or implementation of legislation, department, or Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy; and/or I have provided a suggestion or plan to the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Executive Staff through the form of an Information Paper or Executive Staff Paper which significantly improved the operations of the agency. I have updated/maintained Institution Supplements or standard operating procedures relating to the application of congressional policies and procedures; and/or I have provided training locally on policy changes which have resulted as a change in Congressional, Judicial, Department or National Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy; and/or I have processed paperwork mandated by Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy following established policies, directives and regulations. I have interpreted and implemented procedures on a local level as a result of new congressional, department, Bureau of Prisons (BOP) or judicial policy; and/or I have participated as a member of a local work group established to determine the impact of policy and procedure changes on the local inmate population; and/or I have chaired a local work group and approved final actions to establish local procedures as a result of changes to national, judicial and/or Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).