Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Religious Services Assistants perform clerical support services for the Religious Services Department or the Life Connections Program.&nbsp;They must prepare and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, and write memorandums to management. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position,&nbsp;they must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and written internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have reviewed written work of lower level co-workers for grammar, content, and format. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings using established procedures and formats; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings from written notes. I have summarized inventory data in a report; and/or I have prepared grammatically error free memoranda for supervisory signature; and/or I have prepared a detailed report explaining potential problems in department operations which included recommendations for further consideration/implementation; and/or I have prepared devotional and religious educational materials. None of the above. 5 Religious Services Assistants are required to orally convey information to their supervisor, co-workers, vendors, the public, inmates, central office and regional office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding assignments.&nbsp; They must possess the ability to verbally communicate information understandable to the intended audience.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to inmate inquiries; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff member; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the general public or employees. I have responded to employees and telephone callers interested in obtaining information; and/or I have communicated with vendors to request information (e.g. bids for office equipment); and/or I have discussed with supervisors information gathered; and/or I have relayed information regarding specific programs/issues to staff. I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group in the work unit; and/or I have participated as part of a team to provide information; and/or I have assisted in minor complaints impacting work area. None of the above. 6 Religious Services Assistants plan and organize work, efficiently utilizing time and available resources. They must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and rearrange priorities when workload dictates.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained fellow employees and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work assignments; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have made travel arrangements for staff; and/or I have maintained supervisor's calendar; and/or I have reserved local conference rooms for meetings; and/or I have maintained tracking system of office expenditures/budget; and/or I have gathered information for special projects. I have monitored, adjusted and distributed the workload for staff, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have ensured any budget concerns or issues were addressed for planning future purchases; and/or I have established a new filing systems or other data collection system; and/or I have operated and maintained libraries (audio, video, and literary) for a program area. None of the above. 7 Religious Services Assistants must be able to research, retrieve, review and process various information pertaining to religious services or Life Connection program operations.&nbsp;They must be able to research and retrieve information and prepare reports and correspondence relative to program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a memo using Microsoft Word; and/or I have prepared requests for purchase; and/or I have edited correspondence on the computer. I have provided general information to managers and staff via e-mail; and/or I have used the Internet to retrieve information, news releases, updates and related information; and/or I have used a database to track information. I have created tables in Microsoft Excel; and/or I have used Microsoft Access to create a database; and/or I have created a desk guide using a variety of Word functions; and/or I have used a computer to obtain criminal record (NCIC/NLETS) checks. None of the above. 8 Religious Services Assistants must maintain systematic files, ledgers, and other required information relative to religious services or Life Connections program area.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the inventory of supplies; and/or I have gathered and organized requested data for supervisor’s use. I have maintained files for program review or comparable external audit purposes; and/or I have developed a checklist for various program processes which ensured compliance with applicable policies and procedures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have collected and organized information for use by others in preparing comprehensive reports or correspondence; and/or I have conducted property inventories and maintained appropriate records. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have reviewed program area files for completeness; and/or I have maintained an established filing system for document/information storage/retrieval. None of the above. 9 Religious Services Assistants must have a knowledge of the policies and procedures of a correctional environment, along with religious services or Life Connections Programs specific policies and guidelines.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed post orders and emergency plans as required by policy; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have reviewed time and attendance records for accuracy. I have applied necessary changes in procedures as indicated by federal policy; and/or I have adhered to policy when determining deadline for vendor payments; and/or I have explained policy and procedures to inmates, staff or others; and/or I have interpreted and applied policies and guidelines pertaining to the processing of employee Time and Attendance records. I have responded to inquiries received regarding program/area requirements; and/or I have responded to general leave policy questions; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).