Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 The following questions will be used to help us determine your eligibility for this Criminal Investigator position. Please read each question carefully before selecting a response. 1 To apply for this position, applicants must be under the age of 37, OR preference-eligible veteran, OR have worked or be currently working in a Federal law enforcement position. Please select one of the following responses: Answer to this question is required I am under 37 years of age. I am 37 years of age or older. I am 37 years or older, but I have prior Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. section 8336 such that, when the years of service is subtracted from my current age, I will be under 37 years of age. I am a preference-eligible veteran. 2 List your Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY) OR your Federal law enforcement series and dates of employment below. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Are you eligible and available for assignment anywhere within the United States, its Territories, and Possessions? I understand that I will be required to sign a Georgraphic Mobility Agreement, attesting to my understanding that I can be relocated by my employer to another geographic locality. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 "This position requires the incumbent to work an average of two or more Law Enforcement Availability Pay (LEAP) hours per scheduled work day, which may include evenings, nights and weekends. The hours worked will vary depending on the nature of the assignment." Are you available to work an average of two or more LEAP hours on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This position requires the incumbent to work various shifts (e.g., 8:15am-5pm), 12am-8am, 4pm-12am, in addition to 2 or more LEAP hours, on a daily basis. In short, the hours worked will vary depending on the nature of your assignment. Are you available to work various shifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I am available for worldwide travel, including travel to countries where adverse OR dangerous conditions may be common. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have a valid US drivers license OR will be able to obtain a valid state motor vehicle operations license by the time I am appointed. Answer to this question is required True False 8 All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to successfully complete a medical evaluation. Are you willing to submit to a medical evaluation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 With which of the following business and management functions do you have direct work experience? Answer to this question is required Administrative Budgeting / finance Communications Government Relations Information Services Inspection Legal Media Relations Purchasing Criminal Justice Administration E-Commerce Management Finance International Business Information Technology Management Public Management Human Resource Management General Management Conflict and Negotiation Management Fraud Management Emergency Planning and/or Management? Threat Assessment Logistics Management None of the Above 2 Which of the following best reflects your training and or experience applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. None of the above 3 I have performed the following personnel management functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implementing work completed Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects Performing annual performance evaluations None of the above 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experience providing technical guidance on support services policies and procedures and the most effective means to meet these requirements? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 5 Which of the following reflects your highest level of experience developing mission objectives? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others who developed mission objectives. I have participated on a team that developed mission objectives. I have independently developed mission objectives. I have led others charged with developing mission objectives. I have no experience developing mission objectives. 6 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 7 Identify all of the following types of teams on which you have participated: Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary / cross-functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above 8 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established working relationships? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Supervisors Managers Members of the academic community Government organizations Private industry Law enforcement officials Technical experts Professional organizations Nongovernmental organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Law enforcement organizations Foreign government officials None of the above 9 Select the types of computer software programs and or applications with which you have worked. Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentations / graphics Database management programs Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical quantitative analysis tools (e.g. SAS, SPSS) Web based programs None of the above 10 Which of the following computer resources have you used? Answer to this question is required General internet search engines (i.e. Google, Yahoo, etc.) Internet subscriber search engines (i.e. Accurint, Choicepoint, Dun & Bradstreet, etc.) Law enforcement databases (i.e. NCIC, TECS, etc.) Internal agency databases and search engines Academic databases and search engines Local government databases None of the above 11 From the list of investigative writings below, select those that you have personally drafted. Answer to this question is required Interview write up Prosecutorial summary Report of Investigation Memo of conversation / Note to file / spot report Affidavit in support of criminal complaint Affidavit in support of a search warrant Article for trade publication Tactical plan Investigative plan None of the above 12 Choose all examples that match your experience preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have prepared issue papers and/or briefings for presentation to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 13 I have given oral testimony in a criminal, civil or administrative proceeding in the course of my law enforcement career. Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 15 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Summary report Correspondence Technical reports Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Directives Regulatory statutory material Policy guidance Analysis of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Strategic plans Performance measures None of the above 16 Select one description that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 17 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community? Answer to this question is required I have no experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community. I have established liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community with guidance from a supervisor. I have some experience independently establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community. I have routinely and independently established liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community as a regular part of my job. I am highly skilled at establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community, having trained others in this activity and or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 18 I have conducted briefings or made presentations before groups of people. Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One on One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 20 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior agency officials Managers Colleagues Subordinates Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Civic groups Universities None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.