Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-07 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-08 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Recycling Factory Technician must be able to analyze, interpret and apply a wide range of information in order to prepare correspondence and complex technical reports in a clear and concise manner. Additionally, he/she is required to prepare correspondence and reports related to completed projects, which are used as reference material in support of manufacturing processes and procedures, prepare responses to inquiries, and convey information to staff, customers and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared informational memorandums; and/or I have communicated information via electronic mail; and/or I have forwarded data from an established program or spreadsheet. I have summarized data in a report; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings; and/or I have drafted minutes for staff meetings. I have prepared weekly status reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing graphs and charts outlining production flow status or requirements; and/or I have prepared inner office memorandums relaying recycling or factory information; and/or I have maintained activity log on projects assigned. None of the above. 5 The Recycling Factory Technician must possess knowledge of safety program policies, recycling policies and procedures, along with the ability to interpret and apply UNICOR and BOP policy and procedures to effectively accomplish the requirements of the position. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized existing policies to ensure safety equipment is in compliance with regulations; and/or I have ensured sanitation program met governing regulations/guidelines; and/or I have referenced the Integrated Management System to complete assigned tasks. I have interpreted organization guidelines to ensure compliance with regulations; and/or I have revised an internal standard operating procedure based on change to local policy; and/or I have utilized established checklist to ensure continued policy compliance; and/or I have participated in an operational review and documented program compliance or non compliance; and/or I have referred to Safety Data Sheets prior to using hazardous materials or equipment; and/or I have trained others in established safety measures. I have assisted in the inspection of work areas to ensure safety standards are met on a continual basis; and/or I have instructed inmate work detail on proper use of specific machinery; and/or I have referred to Safety Data Sheets for chemical content of a product. None of the above. 6 The Recycling Factory Technician is responsible for the recycling/de-manufacture of electronic equipment in a production environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised inmates or others in disassembling and sorting a variety of electronic and computer equipment; and/or I have provided training to inmates/staff in disassembling electronic and computer equipment; and/or I have tested electronic and computer equipment for sale to recyclers. I have directed inmates in performing routine tasks; and/or I have maintained accountability of schedules; and/or I have sorted equipment as instructed. I have directed inmates or others in a production environment; and/or I have sorted equipment as directed; and/or I have tested equipment as directed. None of the above. 7 The Recycling Factory Technician must meet and deal with people of differing backgrounds and behavioral patterns. He/she deals with a variety of individuals including, assigned inmates, co workers/other staff, institution management, upper management official/supervisor of industries, equipment and commodities vendors and representatives, contractor, staff from other institutions, customers, and potential customers from a wide range of public, private sector, federal organizations and Central Office personnel. He/she interacts with people of varying backgrounds in order to plan and coordinate work, provide policy guidance, advise or train, and convey available services of the Recycling Factory. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated co-workers on a new process; and/or I have conveyed technical specialty information to others; and/or I have provided specific instructions to an inmate work detail; and/or I have given clear precise instructions to staff while working in control center; and/or I have presented personnel orientation to new staff; and/or I have given orientation instructions to new inmates; and/or I have answered telephonic or in-person questions regarding application procedures; and/or I have explained qualifications procedures to a staff member. I have participated in interviews; and/or I have facilitated a training session during Annual Training, Admission and Orientation or Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I; and/or I have coordinated delivery schedules; and/or I have resolved outstanding discrepancy with vendor/client, resulting in the receipt of merchandise or appropriate credit. I have conducted a facility tour for a small group of new staff; and/or I have given an oral presentation during department meeting or staff recall; and/or I have answered routine inquiries received from internal personnel. None of the above. 8 The Recycling Factory Technician must have an understanding of the operation of warehouse equipment and must be able to train others in the operation of various warehouse equipment. He/she oversees work and training concerns with receiving, handling, storing material, transporting of material, and equipment calibration of various pieces of warehousing equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in providing group training to inmates on basic safety talks and the proper way to operate warehousing equipment (i.e., pallet jacks, balers and hand tools); and/or I have completed research and recommended purchasing of equipment; and/or I have assisted in setting up new equipment and scheduling of maintenance schedules. I have operated a forklift; and/or I have operated a pallet jack and/or baler; and/or I have provided daily guidance to inmate work detail in the area of proper equipment operation and safety issues. I have read, understood and interpreted safety directions; and/or I have used hand tools and taught others how to properly and safely use tools; and/or I have guided inmate workers on how to choose appropriate tool for specific task. None of the above. 9 The Recycling Factory Technician must be able to direct, supervise and motivate groups of inmates from various backgrounds and cultures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have escorted inmates to call outs, as instructed; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy, through the work day; and/or I have assisted inmates in resolving problems. I have monitored subordinates/inmates to determine if they followed instructions; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to lower-level staff in resolving problems. I have approved the work assignments of inmates; and/or I have prepared and discussed performance log entries with inmate workforce; and/or I have settled disputes in the visiting room; and/or I have trained inmates in proper work procedures. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-8 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Recycling Factory Technician must be able to analyze, interpret and apply a wide range of information in order to prepare correspondence and complex technical reports in a clear and concise manner. Additionally, he/she is required to prepare correspondence and reports related to completed projects, which are used as reference material in support of manufacturing processes and procedures, prepare responses to inquiries, and convey information to staff, customers and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared informational memorandums; and/or I have communicated information via electronic mail; and/or I have forwarded data from an established program or spreadsheet. I have written correspondence regarding activities and issues affecting the organizational unit; and/or I have written memorandum to staff to advise them of new policies/procedures; and/or I have prepared disassembly schedules; and/or I have initiated email/memorandum contact with staff to coordinate efforts for a current or projected project; and/or I have corresponded with others regarding established recycling procedures; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence for higher level use or approval. I have prepared weekly status reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing graphs and charts outlining production flow status or requirements; and/or I have prepared inner office memorandums relaying recycling or factory information; and/or I have maintained an activity log on projects assigned. None of the above. 5 The Recycling Factory Technician must possess knowledge of safety program policies, recycling policies and procedures, along with the ability to interpret and apply UNICOR and BOP policy and procedures to effectively accomplish the requirements of the position. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted safety policy and procedures to ensure safety operations are in compliance with regulatory requirements; and/or I have reviewed internal recycling/recovery policy and made recommendations for updates; and/or I have developed checklist or procedure to ensure actions taken comply with policy; and/or I have resolved issues in compliance with established policy/procedures; and/or I have participated in a Program Review and documented program compliance or non compliance to policy; and/or I have conducted periodic inspections to ensure compliance with environmental regulations; and/or I have provided information on environmental projects during informal meetings; and/or I have recommended updates to local procedures for handling hazardous materials, to comply with changes to national policy; and/or I have interpreted reports to determine the presence of hazardous materials. I have utilized existing policies to ensure safety equipment is in compliance with regulations; and/or I have ensured sanitation program met governing regulations/guidelines; and/or I have referenced the Integrated Management System to complete assigned tasks. I have interpreted organization guidelines to ensure compliance with regulations; and/or I have revised an internal standard operating procedure based on change to local policy; and/or I have utilized established checklist to ensure continued policy compliance; and/or I have participated in an operational review and documented program compliance or non compliance; and/or I have referred to Safety Data Sheets prior to using hazardous materials or equipment; and/or I have trained others in established safety measures. None of the above. 6 The Recycling Factory Technician is responsible for the recycling/de-manufacture of electronic equipment in a production environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised inmates or others in disassembling and sorting a variety of electronic and computer equipment; and/or I have provided training to inmates/staff in disassembling electronic and computer equipment; and/or I have tested electronic and computer equipment for sale to recyclers. I have reviewed customer requirements, determined type of recycling process to utilize and made adjustments where needed for computer and electronic products; and/or I have prepared and marketed material to attract public and private interest in purchasing/donating recycled computer and electronic products; and/or I have determined and adjusted production flow for a recycling operation for computer and electronic products; and/or I have made recommendations to the Factory Manager to change or modify incoming/outgoing products, donators and/or buyers for a computer and electronic recycling operation. I have directed inmates or others in a production environment; and/or I have sorted equipment as directed; and/or I have tested equipment as directed. None of the above. 7 The Recycling Factory Technician must meet and deal with people of differing backgrounds and behavioral patterns. He/she deals with a variety of individuals including, assigned inmates, co workers/other staff, institution management, upper management official/supervisor of industries, equipment and commodities vendors and representatives, contractor, staff from other institutions, customers, and potential customers from a wide range of public, private sector, federal organizations and Central Office personnel. He/she interacts with people of varying backgrounds in order to plan and coordinate work, provide policy guidance, advise or train, and convey available services of the Recycling Factory. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the shipment and receipt requirements of a secure environment to/from vendors/clients not familiar with correctional facilities restrictions; and/or I have provided technical information pertaining to projects or special assignments to management officials; and/or I have resolved a potentially serious issue by effectively coordinating and communicating needs/requirements with parties involved. I have participated in interviews; and/or I have facilitated a training session during Annual Training, Admission and Orientation or Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I; and/or I have coordinated delivery schedules; and/or I have resolved outstanding discrepancy with vendor/client, resulting in the receipt of merchandise or appropriate credit. I have conducted a facility tour for a small group of new staff; and/or I have given an oral presentation during department meeting or staff recall; and/or I have answered routine inquiries received from internal personnel None of the above. 8 The Recycling Factory Technician must have an understanding of the operation of warehouse equipment and must be able to train others in the operation of various warehouse equipment. He/she oversees work and training concerns with receiving, handling, storing material, transporting of material, and equipment calibration of various pieces of warehousing equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in providing group training to inmates on basic safety talks and the proper way to operate warehousing equipment (i.e., pallet jacks, balers and hand tools); and/or I have completed research and recommended purchasing of equipment; and/or I have assisted in setting up new equipment and scheduling of maintenance schedules. I have operated a forklift; and/or I have operated a pallet jack and/or baler; and/or I have provided daily guidance to inmate work detail in the area of proper equipment operation and safety issues. I have provided training to staff and inmates on the basics of operating a tractor trailer; and/or I have provided individual instruction on proper operation of warehouse equipment, (i.e., test equipment, calibration methods, hand tools, fork lift, pallet jacks, vertical & horizontal balers, lock/out tag out program); and/or I have provided training on safety issues and how to use equipment safely; and/or I have researched and purchased warehousing equipment, set up and/or assembled equipment; and/or I have scheduled preventive maintenance schedules on all equipment; and/or I have monitored equipment daily for proper usage. None of the above. 9 The Recycling Factory Technician must be able to direct, supervise and motivate groups of inmates from various backgrounds and cultures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored subordinates/inmates to determine if they followed instructions; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to lower-level staff in resolving problems. I have approved the work assignments of inmates; and/or I have prepared and discussed performance log entries with inmate workforce; and/or I have settled disputes in the visiting room; and/or I have trained inmates in proper work procedures. I have trained/supervised inmates in basic work procedures; and/or I have observed the process of teamwork and methods/techniques used to derive results; and/or I have delegated assignments to others during supervisor’s short term absences. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).