Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [10892] Do you have the ability to lead, supervise and assign work of a variety of mixed trade positions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [55108] Select the supervisor or team lead related task(s) for which you PERSONALLY have been ACCOUNTABLE. Answer to this question is required I have prepared multiyear work plans and budgets utilizing input from subordinate supervisors. I have determined what projects needed to be included in multiyear work plans and budgets and provided this information to my supervisor for him/her to include. I have been responsible for insuring that the annual work plan for my unit is completed on time and under budget. I have been the leader on a project for which I had the day-to-day responsibilities but for which my supervisor was responsible for it being completed on time and under budget. I have filled in for my supervisor in his/her absence. I have led work groups on an intermittent basis as the senior Trades person on the project. I have never led any work group either formally or informally. 4 [18210] Select the statements that represent the duties you have performed as a manager, supervisor, or team leader. Answer to this question is required Set team goals, made work assignments, and reviewed technical quality of deliverables. Reviewed the work of team members and provided guidance and training. Set program or project goals and objectives to be accomplished. Monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishments. Established and tracked program-related performance measures. Established and monitored program delivery cost controls. Established and monitored quality control and quality assurance processes. Set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. Prepared a budget for a division/field office and addressed budgetary issues regarding programs I have managed or overseen. Led a team or group with various levels of experience, skills, orientation, or perspective. Established and coordinated office policies, standard operating procedures, etc. for my work unit. Prepared schedules for completion of work. Assigned work to team members based on priorities. Evaluated performance and conducted performance reviews. Formulated, planned and adjusted work operations to meet changing requirements within available resources and with limited sacrifice of quantity or quality of work. None of the above 5 [8287] Select the statements that describes your experience leading team members to accomplish organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Leading team members in the achievement of organizational goals and objectives. Applying principles and applications of organizational assessments. Using management interventions. Applying change to management. Identifying and consulting with customers internally and externally. Independently holding self accountable for results. None of the above. 6 [2882] Select the function(s) that you have performed in supervising or managing a project, organization, team, working group, or contractor staff. Answer to this question is required Set team goals, made work assignments, and reviewed technical quality of deliverables. Set and adjusted short-term priorities as needed. Set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. Developed performance measures. Evaluated and recommended or assigned performance ratings. Planned, assigned, reviewed, and accepted, amended, or rejected work done by others. Coached or mentored individuals about their work performance. Took administrative or other action to correct poor performance of an employee or contractor. Maintained adherence to program policies and applicable laws and regulations. I have not performed any of the functions described above. 7 [55552] Select the answer below that best describes your experience briefing senior level managers at meetings and conferences. Answer to this question is required I have conducted briefings to senior management officials to present, explain, interpret, and negotiate findings of financial reviews that involve financial problems. I have conducted briefings to senior management officials to present, explain, interpret, and negotiate findings of financial reviews that involve financial problems, impact budget outcomes, and require corrective action. I have conducted briefings to senior management officials to present, explain, interpret, and negotiate findings of financial reviews of activities that involve financial problems, impact budget outcomes, and require corrective action. I have conducted briefings to senior management officials to present, explain, interpret, and negotiate findings of financial reviews of financial management systems that involve financial problems, impact budget outcomes, and require corrective action. None of the above. 8 [1090] Choose the description that best describes your experience inspecting and performing repairs to engineering and construction equipment. Answer to this question is required With technical supervision from a heavy equipment mechanic, I can inspect, troubleshoot and repair the following: cranes, engineering and construction equipment; control, electrical, pneumatic, and hydraulic systems including engines, transmissions, and differentials; cables, clamps, outriggers, attachments, moving parts, running gear, etc. I can make adjustments to master clutch, brakes/controls on cranes, etc. I have the ability to use cutting torch and a variety of test equipment. Independently and without supervision, I have experience as a heavy equipment mechanic performing most types of troubleshooting, inspecting and repairing. I can and have performed all of the tasks listed in the response above, plus I can weld and cut using gas and arc welding equipment and cutting torch. I can use a variety of test equipment and analyzers. With general technical supervision, I can troubleshoot and repair general motor vehicles. I can assist with major maintenance on cranes, engineering and construction equipment. I can inspect and make minor repairs to cables, clamps, outriggers, attachments, moving parts, running gear, etc. I can make minor adjustments to master clutch, brakes/controls on cranes, etc. None of the above. 9 [427] Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience with budget management and execution. Answer to this question is required I have prepared formal budget request packages. I have developed and justified a multi-year budget for an organization. I have explained and defended budget requests before senior agency management officials. I have served as a funds administrator and authorized obligations for at least 6 continuous months. I have been responsible for budget execution and monitoring for at least 6 continuous months including reconciling commitments, obligations and expenditures. None of the above 10 [27730] I have experience utilizing the following disciplinary techniques. Answer to this question is required Counsel employees or staff Issue memos or letters of proposed disciplinary action Develop performance improvement plans with defined timelines Enroll employee in a training program(s) for personal development I do not handle any disciplinary related actions; this area is handled by other individuals within my work environment or organization. 11 [23390] Select the responses that describe your experience dealing with employee performance and conduct issues, and employee grievances and complaints. Answer to this question is required Heard and resolved complaints from employees. Heard and resolved group grievances. Counseled employees on behavior, explaining the effect of disciplinary measures such as warnings and reprimands. Reviewed and approved serious disciplinary actions (e.g., suspensions). Developed performance standards to track and evaluate the progress and quality of the work of employees demonstrating performance problems. Initiated and took performance-based corrective actions. I have not dealt directly with employee performance and conduct issues. I have not dealt directly with grievances and complaints. 12 [54208] Select the response that best describes your experience communicating with Agency/Organizational senior executives, and outside stakeholders as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have communicated with a range of individuals or groups both inside and outside of my organization in order to justify, persuade, negotiate or resolve controversial policy or program issues. I have conducted discussions or participated in work groups as an organizational program representative in order to influence, motivate or persuade individuals or groups, including those skeptical or in disagreement. I have participated in discussions as a program representative or in order to plan, coordinate or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific financial problems, including influencing or motivating cooperative individuals or groups working towards mutual goals. I have served as a program representative dealing with managers and employees in order to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information required to complete assignments. None of the above 13 [3024] Select the type(s) of contact(s) you interact or communicate with as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required Peer groups Members of the public Senior management officials within your organization Senior management officials outside of your organization Oversight agencies Congressional staff White House staff Politically appointed staff None of the above 14 [52118] Select the statement that best describes your experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating project activities, including: assigning work; training or instructing employees; reporting problems and offering solutions to your supervisor; meeting deadlines; monitoring work in progress, and making day-to-day adjustments to resolve unexpected conditions. Answer to this question is required I have no experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating project activities, but have participated as an individual contributor in multiple, technical project teams. I have demonstrated experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating some, but not all of the project work activities listed, with guidance from my supervisor or senior employee. I have demonstrated experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating all of the project work activities listed, with some guidance from my supervisor. I have demonstrated experience coordinating work activities as a team leader over a small group (2-3) of employees assigned to a project. I have demonstrated experience coordinating work activities as a team leader over a moderate group (4-6) of employees assigned to a project. I have demonstrated experience coordinating work activities as a team leader over a large group (7 or more) of employees assigned to a project. I have demonstrated experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating work activities of a large group (7 or more) of geographically dispersed employees assigned to a project. None of the above 15 [1098] Do you have the ability to operate crane controls making difficult clearance judgments while watching the moving load and boom, and compensating for the variations in cranes lifting capacity during position changes and compensating for weather conditions such as wind? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 [1096] Do you have experience setting up cranes and safely lifting and placing the loads? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 18 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 19 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 22 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 23 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 24 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 25 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 28 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 28.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 28.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 28.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).