Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Chief of Staff to the Deputy Director must possess the ability to effectively converse with a variety of individuals internal and external to the agency. Internally, he/she communicates with agency executive staff, wardens and other institution executive staff, union officials, and other BOP staff, line staff and managers, throughout the agency. External communications include members of Congress and their staff, the courts, state and local officials, representatives of civic organizations, attorneys, and the public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a work group which included members of the upper management/executive staff in other agencies; and/or I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given formal presentations to the executive staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have given formal presentations at conferences, community events, vendor fairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have briefed executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have developed and modified programs/procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have made presentations to department/unit heads; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to co-workers and peers. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific disciplines; and/or I have provided formal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 3 The Chief of Staff to the Deputy Director is responsible for responding to telephone and written inquiries received by the Director.&nbsp; In addition, he/she is responsible for preparing select correspondence to Federal judges, public defenders, U.S. Attorneys, U.S. Marshals, BOP Chief Executive Officers, DOJ staff and other government officials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared draft articles for an agency newsletter and/or other publications; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual’s work prior to submission for final action or review. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have reviewed and edited an internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a classified level report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws, regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level federal, state, local or international external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees. None of the above. 4 The Chief of Staff to the Deputy Director meets and deals with high-level officials within the BOP, DOJ, other government agencies, members of Congress and their staff, the courts, state and local officials, representatives of civic organizations, attorneys, and the public. He/she must possess skills necessary to relate technical and non-technical information to others in a manner which is understood by targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given a presentation during a community based meeting to promote agency/organization; and/or I have resolved an internal departmental/unit issue; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process as a mediator. I have facilitated and coordinated training for a variety of participants (management level/line staff); and/or I have provided timely and accurate information to an agency/organization public information officer for use in his/her response to news media sources/in public forums; and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated routine information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level. None of the above. 5 The Chief of Staff to the Deputy Director is involved in assisting the Deputy Director with the responsibility for the development, implementation, and evaluation of programs and policies created for effective management of the BOP. He/she analyzes management needs, proposes the most effective strategies, and monitors implementation to evaluate the success or the need for modification. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have overseen program objectives and discussed with management; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have analyzed national agency operational problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. I have reviewed and updated current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. None of the above. 6 The Chief of Staff to the Deputy Director reviews proposed legislation and regulations to identify impact on BOP programs, operations and employees. He/she may participate with BOP executives in meetings with Congressional staff members to represent the BOP&rsquo;s interests and goals. It is imperative he/she possess knowledge of the workings and policies which direct the BOP in order to advise and inform. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented a topic during Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have deliberated sanctions during a disciplinary committee meeting in a correctional environment; and/or I have reviewed policy and procedures and recommended changes regarding shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have reviewed evaluation reports to ensure compliance with evaluation policy and standards for program reviews or audits; and/or I have chaired program or operational review or comparable internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to Warden/CEO on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at an institution; and/or I have formulated institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer/liaison program for the institution. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).