Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Do you have at least one year of experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-12 level in the Federal service, providing user support for an Oracle Federal Financials system? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you been responsible for translating a new policy or regulation into standard operating procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Complete the following statement accurately: Within the past three years I have logged into and used ___________________ to enter in requisitions, process contract awards and run reports. Answer to this question is required Oracle Prism Momentum PD2 other financial or acquisition systems not mentioned here None of these. 4 Which of the following activities have you conducted in the past three (3) years? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Reviewing the suitability of internal control design Identifying areas of relative weakness/risk in an operating program or function Designing compensating controls Designing process improvements None of these 5 I have been responsible for a taking a project from start to finish, including coordinating project activities, gathering information and requirements, establishing timelines, and maintaining documentation consistent with established policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required True False 6 I have experience writing macros in Excel. Answer to this question is required True False 7 Have you developed AND carried out a strategic plan for an organization of five or more people, with a time horizon of more than six months but less than five years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which Oracle enterprise reporting package (ERP) financial systems have you used in the past three years? Answer to this question is required Accounts payable Accounts receivable Federal administrator Fixed assets General ledger Grants iProcurement Oracle Work flow Purchasing Systems administrator XML Publisher None of these 9 Have you assisted with year-end Oracle Federal Financials system closeout procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I have trained users on Oracle financial management system procedures. Answer to this question is required True False 11 Within the past three years, which components of Oracle have you used? Answer to this question is required Planning and Budgeting (EPM) Fusion Accounting Hub (FAH) Oracle Integration Cloud (OIC) Automated Travel and Expense Reporting System (ATERS) Contract Writing System (CWS) Others not listed here None of these 12 Complete the following statement accurately, using the experience reflected in your r&eacute;sum&eacute;: &ldquo;I have provided technical information to _____________.&rdquo; Answer to this question is required staff from an embassy a college or university alumni group museum staff affinity groups or social clubs fundraising organizations corporate executives other groups not listed here I have not provided liaison in the manner described here. 13 Do you have experience training users on the use of specific software applications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describe your presentation/communications skills. Be prepared to justify your responses during a job interview, if you are invited. The skills must have been acquired over the course of at least two projects (two examples of how you demonstrated the skill, for each skill). Answer to this question is required Effectively communicated technical information to internal and external audiences. Persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. Interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. Conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. Effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. None of the above. Grade: 14 1 Do you have at least one year of experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service, serving as systems administrator for an Oracle Federal Financials system ? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you been responsible for translating a new policy or regulation into standard operating procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Complete the following statement accurately: Within the past three years I have logged into and used ___________________ to enter in requisitions, process contract awards and run reports. Answer to this question is required Oracle Prism Momentum PD2 other financial or acquisition systems not mentioned here None of these. 4 Which of the following activities have you conducted in the past three (3) years? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Reviewing the suitability of internal control design Identifying areas of relative weakness/risk in an operating program or function Designing compensating controls Designing process improvements None of these 5 I have been responsible for a taking a project from start to finish, including coordinating project activities, gathering information and requirements, establishing timelines, and maintaining documentation consistent with established policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required True False 6 I have experience writing macros in Excel. Answer to this question is required True False 7 Have you developed AND carried out a strategic plan for an organization of five or more people, with a time horizon of more than six months but less than five years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which Oracle enterprise reporting package (ERP) financial systems have you used in the past three years? Answer to this question is required Accounts payable Accounts receivable Federal administrator Fixed assets General ledger Grants iProcurement Oracle Work flow Purchasing Systems administrator XML Publisher None of these 9 Have you assisted with year-end Oracle Federal Financials system closeout procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I have trained users on Oracle financial management system procedures. Answer to this question is required True False 11 Within the past three years, which components of Oracle have you used? Answer to this question is required Planning and Budgeting (EPM) Fusion Accounting Hub (FAH) Oracle Integration Cloud (OIC) Automated Travel and Expense Reporting System (ATERS) Contract Writing System (CWS) Others not listed here None of these 12 Complete the following statement accurately, using the experience reflected in your r&eacute;sum&eacute;: &ldquo;I have provided technical information to _____________.&rdquo; Answer to this question is required staff from an embassy a college or university alumni group museum staff affinity groups or social clubs fundraising organizations corporate executives other groups not listed here I have not provided liaison in the manner described here. 13 Do you have experience training users on the use of specific software applications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describe your presentation/communications skills. Be prepared to justify your responses during a job interview, if you are invited. The skills must have been acquired over the course of at least two projects (two examples of how you demonstrated the skill, for each skill). Answer to this question is required Effectively communicated technical information to internal and external audiences. Persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. Interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. Conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. Effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. None of the above. 15 Have you developed technical training that was presented to both technical and non-technical audiences? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Indicate the audiences to which you have successfully presented complex information. Be prepared to discuss your answer(s) if invited to interview. Answer to this question is required Antagonistic or hostile individuals Executives Blue collar workers White collar workers Academic professionals Community groups Other kinds of people not listed here None of these audiences Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.