Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing instrumentation and control equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed maintained, modified or repaired instrumentation and control equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of instrumentation and control equipment, bit I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of instrumentation and control equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired instrumentation and control equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired instrumentation and control equipment. 2 For which instrumentation and control systems have you assisted others performing installation or maintenance work? Answer to this question is required DCS/PLC/HMI Boiler BMS Chiller Controls Analytical Equipment Smart Transmitters None of the above 3 Have you independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired instrumentation and control equipment for systems such as boilers and chillers? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Which items have you installed? Answer to this question is required CEMS Boiler BMS Chiller Controls Fiber optic transmitters and receivers Opacity Monitors Air Drying Systems Weight Scale Systems DCS/PLC/HMI Water Treatment Systems None of the above 5 I have been responsible for checking Lockout/Tagout procedures to ensure all potential energy sources (e.g., mechanical, electrical) are de-energized before starting equipment repair. Answer to this question is required True False 6 On which instrumentation and control topics/theories have you completed coursework or on-the-job training? Answer to this question is required Level Transmitter Installation Pressure Transmitter Installation Temperature Transmitter Installation Hart Protocol Ladder Logic Electrical Theory None of the above 7 Do you have experience interpreting factory specifications and following recommended procedures for equipment when performing instrumentation and controls assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the documents you have read and interpreted to install or repair instruments/controls. Answer to this question is required Written instructions (e.g., emails, notes) Piping and Instrumentation Drawings (P&IDs) Schematics Original Equipment Manuals (OEM) Line drawings Electrical drawings Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) None of the above 9 Which tools have you used to test instrumentation and control equipment or systems? Answer to this question is required Dead Weight Tester Amp Clamp Pressure Calibrator Pressure Cell Hart Communicator Digital Multimeter Wally Box Hart Protocol on PC Test Guage None of the above 10 Which hand tools have you used to assist with the installation, maintenance, or repair instrumentation and control equipment? Answer to this question is required Common hand tools Pipe threading equipment Tubing Benders/Cutters Portable GFCI Electric/power tools Soldering irons None of the above 11 Select the hazardous atmosphere detection systems/equipment you have repaired, maintained and calibrated independently. Answer to this question is required Refrigerant leak monitors Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) monitors Oxygen sensors Combustion Gas Analyzers None of the above 12 Select the calibration test equipment you have used when installing or repairing instruments/controls. Answer to this question is required Digital multi-meters Hart communicator Hart protocol for laptops Equipment-specific communication devices (e.g., ABB handheld communicator) RTD simulator Flue gas combustion analyzer Infrared thermometer Hot and cold box (calibrated thermal blocks) Portable variable AC/DC voltage power supplies Signal generators Pressure calibrators (i.e., Druck) Digital/mechanical pressure measurement gauges None of the above 13 Do you have experience using extension ladders, scissor lifts, and articulating boom lifts to reach instruments/controls needing work? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Which boiler auxiliary equipment have you repaired, maintained and calibrated for proper operation? Answer to this question is required Feed water pumps De-aerator/de-aerator tanks Opacity meters Oxygen analyzers Water softeners, dealkalizers, and demineralizers Continuous blowdown systems Chemical feed systems Flow, level and temperature controls None of the above 15 Which types of issues do you have experience trouble shooting when working with instruments and controls? Answer to this question is required Pneumatic Electrical Electronic Mechanical PLC Logic Hydraulic None of the above 16 Which methods have you used to trouble shoot and resolve issues with instruments and control systems? Answer to this question is required Followed logical sequence of pre-determined operation steps Tested the part that is most often the issue Began testing in the middle of the line or process to determine where to look next Researched factory manuals for proper operation and guidance None of the above 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.