Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Toggle navigation About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the answer that best describes your education or experience: Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Government which has equipped me with knowledge of trade community practices and import requirements and the particular skills and abilities to successfully conduct complex investigations, including but not limited to collecting, organizing and analyzing data, writing reports and conducting oral presentations. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 Please select which port location(s) you would like to be considered for. Answer to this question is required Cincinnati, OH Louisville, KY The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 8 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. 9 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 10 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 If you wish to be considered for this position, do you agree to participate in a telephone and/or videoconference interview(s)? The interview will be part of the evaluation process. Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 This position requires overnight travel, driving long distances, lifting up to 50 pounds. Do you currently meet, or if selected, can you meet these requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Please select the response below that indicates your level of proficiency in conducting investigations. Answer to this question is required I have participated as a team member conducting routine import, product safety, and trade investigations. I have independently planned and conducted routine import, product safety, and trade investigations. I have directed routine import, product safety, and trade investigations. I have independently planned and conducted complex import, product safety, and trade investigations. I have taken courses on conducting import, product safety, and trade investigations. I have no experience or education in conducting investigations. 17 From the list below, select the types of investigations you have conducted (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Trade Safety Product Safety Other 18 I am proficient in applying the following investigative techniques (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Conducting surveillance Electronic research and data collection Data mining Reviewing records at a business Collecting Samples Processing evidence None of the Above 19 Select the choice below that best describes your level of experience researching, analyzing and evaluating information and data to identify problems and/or trends. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in researching, analyzing and evaluating information and data. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 20 I am proficient in my knowledge and use of the following computer applications (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Word Processing Spreadsheets Database Management Internet Search Engines E-mail Datamining Tools Crystal Reports or other Reporting Tools Databases used at Federal Agencies (i.e. ATS, ACE) 21 Indicate the extent of your experience in trade community business practices regarding import requirements, documentation, entry processing, examination, etc. Answer to this question is required I have had no experience in performing this task. I have some experience with trade issues such as admissibility, classification, value, Intellectual property rights and some familiarity with the entry process. I have broad familiarity with trade issues such as admissibility, classification, value, Intellectual Property Rights, and quotas; and with the entry process such as entry and entry summary filings, manifest review, drawback of entries, liquidation of entries, and the correction of clerical mistakes through the "19 USC 520(c)(1)" process. I have supervisory or team lead experience and have advised others on trade issues such as admissibility, classification, value, Intellectual Property Rights, quotas, and on the entry process, such as entry and entry summary filings, manifest review, drawback of entries, liquidation of entries and the correction of clerical mistakes through the "19 USC 520(c)(1)" process. 22 Evaluate your ability to obtain and evaluate facts and offer solutions or recommendations to management. Answer to this question is required I have had no experience in performing this task. I have had limited experience in obtaining and evaluating facts and offering solutions or recommendations to management. I have experience resolving problems of a routine nature for which clearly applicable standards or clear-cut precedents exist. I have experience participating in studies involving process improvement for a limited portion of a functional area; making recommendations for improvement based on suggestions obtained from others; or independently recommended improvements for office procedures. I have experience analyzing problems where the issues had precedent or were controlled by applicable laws, regulations or procedures. I have experience completing studies involving workflow and/or workload analysis or process improvement for a single functional area; requesting information to make informed decisions; or utilizing strategic problem solving to make recommendations to management on a course of action. I have independently applied analytical skills to identify problem areas and developed alternative for resolution. I have experience developing and implementing new/innovative techniques to improve processes, performing studies of systems and processes to ensure consistency and uniformity across organizational lines or reviewing complex trade issues that did not have strong precedent and making recommendations to management for their resolution. 23 Evaluate your experience with the laws, regulations, policies, standards, and procedures pertaining to the inspection and control of consumer products. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 24 Evaluate your experience collecting and processing&nbsp;samples, including preparation of necessary records, packing/shipping, and ensuring chain of custody. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 25 Have you represented your agency/division at briefings, meetings, or conferences (e.g., interagency task force briefings, operational plan briefings, etc.)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 26 I have experience conducting interviews with the following indivduals during the course of an investigation. Answer to this question is required Importers and/or customshouse brokers Witnesses Hostile witnesses Federal, State or local officials Corporate officials Attorneys Complainants None of the above 27 Do you have experience analyzing and evaluating factors (e.g., unusual circumstances, variations in approach, incomplete or conflicting data/information, etc.) to ensure compliance with federal laws, rules, and regulations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 28 Do you have experience providing instruction or guidance (e.g., mentoring, field training, etc.) to individuals for the purpose of introducing policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 29 Select the choice(s) that best describe the audience you have given oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Trade Associations State and Local Agencies Other Federal Agencies Manufacturers None of the above 30 Select the choices that describe your ability to communicate orally with all levels of employees and management in order to obtain and provide information. Answer to this question is required I have interviewed others to obtain or verify information; participated in a debate or speech course; or explained nontechnical procedures to customers. I have notified supervisors or managers orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed; or I have explained my organization's programs or services to others. I have given oral presentations at briefings or meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. I have discussed and explained technical material that was controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience. None of the above. 31 Select the choice which best describes your experience interacting with others. Answer to this question is required I have cooperated as a member of a team on a task/project. I have been a facilitator or lead for a team that met project goals and deadlines. I have served on a team where I negotiated, mediated or led the group to reach consensus. None of the above. 32 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 33 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 33.1 If you selected "Other" as the method of hearing about the vacancy announcement, please identify the source.&nbsp; Maximum length of 100 characters. 34 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 35 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).