Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to conduct job safety and environmental compliance, analyses, audits, and inspections.** Investigated work areas, recognized environmental compliance, safety and occupational health hazards, recommended abatement activities or procedures, and verified corrective action. This includes investigating workplace injuries and employee complaints. Answer to this question is required Conducted job safety and environmental compliance, analyses, audits, and/or inspections in large multi-employer workplaces in geographically diverse locations. Conducted job safety and environmental compliance, analyses, audits, and/or inspections in large single employer worksites with multiple facilities. Conducted job safety and environmental compliance, analyses, audits, and/or inspections in a single employer facility. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to develop and manage an environmental, safety and occupational health program . ** Developed and managed &nbsp; a comprehensive environmental compliance, safety, fire protection&nbsp;and prevention, and occupational health program for all staff, occupants, researchers, and visitors&nbsp;at a large Federal installation or corporate facility. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) short and long term planning, 2) monitoring progress and evaluating goals, 3) ensuring compliance, 4) managing hazardous materials, 5)&nbsp; developing &nbsp;safety and environmental health directives and procedures, Answer to this question is required Developed and managed environmental compliance, safety and occupational health program at a large Federal installation or corporate facility and performed ALL of the above tasks. Developed and managed environmental compliance, safety and occupational health program at a large Federal installation or corporate facility and performed FOUR (4) of the above tasks. Developed and managed environmental compliance, safety and occupational health program at a large Federal installation or corporate facility and performed THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of environmental safety and occupational health laws/regulations/guidelines . Applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and guidelines impacting environmental compliance, safety and occupational health, Americans with Disabilities Act, including those promulgated by the Departments of Labor, Transportation, and Health and Human Services, particularly the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Environmental Protection Agency.&nbsp; In addition, all Commonwealth of Virginia (or other relevant states) programs enacted in accordance with the above Federal statutes.&nbsp; &nbsp; Environmental compliance, safety, and occupational health are governed by a complex framework of laws, regulations, and guidelines, often varying significantly across different departments and facilities. Answer to this question is required Have extensive knowledge of environmental safety and occupational health laws/regulations/guidelines as indicated by experience in a large multi-facility organization or agency. Have extensive knowledge of environmental safety and occupational health laws/regulations/guidelines as indicated by experience in a large single facility organization or agency. Have knowledge of environmental safety and occupational health laws/regulations/guideline as indicated by experience in a single facility, None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to develop and conduct environment, safety, and occupational health education training.&nbsp; Developed and conducted environmental, safety and occupational health education and training you have conducted for staff and others including: 1) identifying training needs, 2) evaluating training methods, 3) developing training modules, 4) developing training exercises, 5) conducting training courses, and 6) evaluating trainee feedback to revise training materials, methods, and course outline. Answer to this question is required Developed and administered environmental, safety and occupational health education and training and in doing so performed ALL of the above tasks. Performed AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above tasks in training employees in a large organization on environmental, safety and occupational health. Performed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the above tasks in conducting environmental, safety and occupational health education and training. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse multi-disciplinary workforce with members who have a technically diverse background .** Led and managed a diverse staff in a multi-disciplinary environment and in doing so, performed the following activities: 1) identified current and future staffing needs based on organizational goals, objectives, and capacity gaps; 2) recruited and hired staff to meet those needs; 3) communicated performance expectations to staff; 4) conducted periodic performance evaluations; 5) provided advice and counsel to staff; 6) addressed performance and disciplinary issues; 7) delegated or planned and assigned work; 8) provided appropriate training and professional development opportunities to staff; 9) encouraged staff participation in planning and decision making; and 10) identified and implemented methods to improve staff productivity. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience in managing a diverse professional and administrative staff, in a multi-disciplinary environment, within a government agency, corporation, academic institution or non-profit entity and in doing so, exercised ALL of the activities listed above. Has extensive experience in managing a diverse professional and administrative staff, in a multi-disciplinary environment, within a government agency, corporation, academic institution or non-profit entity and in doing so, exercised EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the activities listed above. Has extensive experience in managing a diverse professional and administrative staff, in a multi-disciplinary environment, within a government agency, corporation, academic institution or non-profit entity and in doing so, exercised SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the activities listed above. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, well organized, and understandable documents related to environmental, safety and occupational health issues for a corporation or government agency. Examples include: 1) environmental, safety and occupational health policies and procedures, 2) onsite inspection reports, 3) results of investigations, 4) executive summaries and briefing papers, 5) analyses of options, 6) project and/or operational status reports, 7) training materials, 8) white papers on industry/technology issues, and 9) Statement of Work (SOW)/Request for Proposal (RFP). Answer to this question is required Authored a variety of environmental, safety and occupational health documents for senior decision-makers at a corporate or agency headquarters, or regional level. These documents were used to communicate change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant or controversial agency-wide safety and occupational health issues. Written material was disseminated agency-wide and subject to intense scrutiny. Ensured accuracy of material by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner, including identifying and correcting all errors, checking references and facts, and undergoing peer review. Authored a variety of environmental, safety and occupational health documents for the decision-maker at a district or facility level. The materials were disseminated to audiences agency-wide and subject to scrutiny. Ensured accuracy of material by checking most aspects of the work product, including identifying and correcting grammar, punctuation, and spelling, and checking references and facts. Authored a variety of environmental, safety and occupational health documents at a departmental level within a facility. The materials were disseminated to audiences primarily within own organizational unit and subject to scrutiny. Ensured accuracy of material by checking most aspects of the work product, including identifying and correcting grammar, punctuation, and spelling, and checking references and facts. None of the above. 13 In the box below, please describe how your education, experience and/or training align with your selected tracks in the respective service units. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).