Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail: Assisted in modifying report formats that needed new headers and footers in a database system. Installed and configured network workstations and printers. Installed network applications (GroupWise, WordPerfect, etc.,) . Discovered an application error in software and reported it to higher level IT specialist for action. Used various computer user and program instruction manuals to complete assignments. Installed operating system and/or assisted in the development of equipment build documents and used software programs to manage large amounts of information. Completed an introductory course in web page development using HTML to display data. Participated in program review or comparable external audit and analyzed/documented finding relative to troubleshooting, program problems, telecommunications, etc. Modified existing network hardware design as instructed. Tested and configured hardware from an existing template. Installed network hardware with assistance. Checked for routine updates to window security patches to avoid possible system vulnerabilities. Ensured projects all completed within required deadlines. Organized assigned work. Installed/configured network stations/printers. Installed GroupWise. Installed WordPerfect. Identified potential security weaknesses and reported to lead IT Specialist/Supervisor. Applied technical specifications concerning network cabling and topologies. Applied file level permission on resources. Customer Service: Verbally provided end-users with troubleshooting techniques. Relayed information to end users for which guidance to readily available. Assisted in the development of IT related presentations for superiors. Ran weekly and other routine mainframe Focus reports for staff in other divisions and either routed the output to their mailbox or download the data and e-mailed. Completed a request for purchase for new IT equipment, as instructed by supervisor. Provided technical assistance to end users on routine issues/problems. Assisted IT staff on an individual basis to help identify and resolve problems and followed up to ensure problem was resolved. Updated instructional e-mails to IT support staff informing them of a change in procedures to complete a task. Reset passwords. Created end-user accounts. Explained a specific installation to staff/customer. Oral Communication: Provided guidance to team members during the completion of a project. Assisted in facilitating information security training sessions. Explained existing IT procedures in an individual setting. Communicated with vendors and applied suggestions provided by vendor technical support specialists. Taught IT staff how to configure and troubleshoot their LAN and WAN issues. Discussed technical issues pertaining to common network practices. Problem Solving: Reported noted security violations and recommended the solutions to resolve issues identified. Identified program problems and referred to them to the supervisor for debugging. Installed and maintained network equipment (network cards, cables, switches, hubs, routers, etc.) with supervision and implemented resolution to basic problems encountered. Used third party and/or agency knowledge base information to troubleshoot problems. Accurately documented problem incidents for resolution by a second or third party. Set-up and performed basic trouble shooting on installed and configured network stations and printers, switches or other network applications/devises (GroupWise, WordPerfect, etc) . Determined output failed due to print command error. Discovered application error in software and reported to lead/manager. Assisted with maintenance/back-up of file server information. Worked on teams which found solutions to IT problems. 1 You must meet the education requirement as described in the Vacancy Announcement or meet the experience requirement (competencies and one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to the next lower grade level). Do you meet the education or experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants who meet the educational requirements for this position, DO NOT need to complete the competencies and specialized experience. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Computer Specialists must possess the ability to communicate both orally and in writing in order to convey complex/technical information to end-users of varying knowledge levels. He/she must possess the ability to clearly communicate policies, programs and procedures to be followed while using automated systems sanctioned by the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified existing documentation to communicate with and train staff; and/or I have communicated information both orally and in writing in a variety of settings (groups, one-on-one, executive) in a manner understood by varying knowledge levels; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to coworkers, managers, etc., on various IT related issues; and/or I have responded to end-user inquiries to resolve software problems encountered. I have explained existing IT procedures in an individual setting; and/or I have provided end-users with verbal troubleshooting techniques (helpdesk support, etc.); and or I have communicated with vendors and applied suggestions provided by vendor technical support specialists. I have assisted the lead instructor with facilitating a training exercise on an IT related topic; and/or I have presented information to co-workers or other personnel during an informal training session; and/or I have assisted with preparation of training materials. None of the above. 3 Computer Specialists analyze system design needs, anticipate problems in computer programs and propose and implement appropriate solutions. In the process of advising management, they must develop alternative approaches to major aspects of system design, and must possess the ability to detect if problems are caused by user error or hardware/software error. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recovered lost data from a tape backup; and/or I have solved problems independently by studying logical progression of an event which led to a problem and recommended a method to prevent a recurrence by modifying the program; and/or I have used diagnostic programs to diagnose drive problems and either replaced the damaged disk drive or recovered drive, as appropriate; and/or I have served as a team member tasked with redesigning the system after a serious problem was detected/diagnosed. I have determined that output failed due to print command error; and/or I have discovered an application error in software and reported it to a higher level IT Specialist for action; and/or I have located and replaced damaged printer cable; and/or I have participated in a Program Review or comparable external audit and analyzed/documented findings relative to troubleshooting, program problems, telecommunications, etc. I have eliminated configuration errors using debugging techniques; and/or I have called a program's technical support service center to discuss problem and applied their recommended solutions; and/or I have isolated a programming problem and referred to technical support center or appropriate source for corrective action. None of the above. 4 Computer Specialists must possess comprehensive knowledge of network systems in order to maintain and manage current network setup and performance. He/she must be able to describe the features and functions of networking components. He/she must possess the knowledge and skills needed to install, configure and troubleshoot basic networking hardware, protocols and services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have installed, maintained, and configured network equipment (network cards, cables, switches, hubs, routers, etc.); and/or I have troubleshooted and diagnosed most network problems (network cards, cables, switches, hubs, routers, etc.) and effectively implemented resolution to problems encountered; and/or I have provided technical assistance to end users on complex issues/problems. I have installed and configured network workstations and printers; and/or I have installed network applications (GroupWise, WordPerfect 3, etc); and/or I have applied basic technical specifications concerning network cabling and topologies. I have utilized routing protocols (i.e., TCP/IP, DNS, RIP) to assist with maintaining the integrity of the network; and/or I have tracked and recorded hardware specifications and configuration files; and/or I have recognized and resolved average to complicated network problems encountered. None of the above. 5 Computer Specialists are responsible for all technical, planning, operational and security issues concerning the LAN. This includes, but is not limited to the serves, workstations, network cabling and network hardware. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have installed and configured network operating systems; and/or I have interpreted documentation and applied necessary upgrades and/or changes in an effort to maintain compliance with agency/organization Information Security guidelines; and/or I have troubleshoot and recognized LAN problems, and provided recommendation for resolution. I have contacted support center for assistance during complex LAN issues; and/or I have coordinated the installation of software patches and updates; and/or I have coordinated virus protection software program monitoring within departments and explained the importance of protecting the network and data to end-users. I have created end user accounts; and/or I have reset passwords; and/or I have applied file level permissions on resources; and/or I have assisted with the back-up and maintenance of file server information; and/or I have assisted with internal IT audits to ensure LAN system compliance with organization standards. I have coordinated the creation, modification, and removal of user accounts and permissions of resources, as outlined in policy/guidelines; and/or I have performed internal/local level audits to ensure compliance with organization's policies; and/or I have troubleshooted and recognized basic LAN problems; and/or I have contacted a lead technician or technical support center for assistance in resolving most issues. None of the above. 6 Computer Specialists must continually ensure information security measures, as prescribed by governing regulations are being practiced by institutional staff. He/she employs both hardware and software safeguards, implements changes to current information security systems, and trains staff members on proper information security measures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have detected a security deficiency in a software program and coordinated with the vendor to resolve; and/or I have controlled and maintained physical storage of media in accordance with policies and procedures; and/or I have reported serious security deficiencies to appropriate party for corrective action; and/or I have trained end-users on the spot to correct information security deficiencies. I have assisted in facilitating information security training sessions; and/or I have reported noted security violations and recommended solutions to resolve issues identified; and/or I have identified potential security weaknesses and reported them to a higher level IT Specialist or supervisor for further consideration; and/or I have checked for routine updates to window security patches to avoid possible system vulnerabilities. I have advised/counseled employees of the danger of sharing passwords, and not following established information security procedures; and/or I have provided a training session on basic information security procedures to co-workers and peers; and/or I have briefed new employees on information security procedures. None of the above. 7 Computer Specialists are required to work on simultaneous projects on a continuous basis. He/she will be assigned oversight responsibility over several programs, and must possess the ability to effectively organize workload and prioritize assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed liaison duties for an IT department; and/or I have provided input to Executive Staff on the feasibility of implementing the use of new software; and/or I have analyzed current processes/programs, and provided recommendations which would enhance capabilities, and/or make necessary changes to increase organization's efficiency; and/or I have prepared draft estimates for resources required to complete assigned tasks. I have been responsible for a portion of a project management team; and/or I have organized assigned work and ensured all assigned projects are completed within required deadlines; and/or I have provided guidance to team members during the completion of a project; and/or I have advised supervisors of status or projects/problems encountered. I have participated on inter-departmental teams which provided information on current system use and/or assists with the implementation of proposed solutions; and/or I have provided management with information based on current and/or future trends of technology; and/or I have assisted management with determining resource requirements for a proposed project. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail: Utilized routing protocols (i.e., TCP/IP, DNS, RIP) to assist in maintaining the integrity of the network. Tracked and recorded hardware specifications and configuration files. Used technical specifications to install hardware and software. Participated in implementation of systems and applications. Followed operating systems procedures for running times or scheduled events such as file backups. Observed staff sharing password information and wrote up a notice of violation. Created queries, reports and forms in Access to manage, display and report data. Complied information on the available space for hardware installation. Wrote a program according to specifications. Installed and configured file servers for sure in a small to medium multi-user network (less than 100 users). Acted as a consultant or lead technical specialist for the planning and implementation phases, including infrastructure hardware, software, and capacity requirements for use in small to medium multi-user network. Prepared mom/instructions for users as a reminder of the correct operation and/or security procedures of a system. Developed flow charts. Created report layouts. Completed sections of technical instruction manuals for use by end users concerning new software or new hardware procedures. Assisted in writing procedures for a new computer system. Assisted in determining resource requirements for a proposed project. Coordinated the creation, modification and removal of user accounts and permissions of resources as outlined in policy/guidelines. Modified code in a series of programs to conform to database update. Performed IT assignments for multiple supervisors and kept separately or in order. Customer Service: Followed clearly established written instruction guide to complete basic assignments. Sent e-mail reminders to staff on a LAN concerning technical training courses being offered. Created queries, reports and forms in Access to manage, display and report data. Researched and produces a listing of available vendors. Created a user menu; assisted with the preparation of training materials. Assisted users in running Norton Anti-virus to check diskettes or hard drive. Referred staff to agency/organization policies and procedures concerning information security. Performed research on user needs. Assisted end users with a variety of basic hardware and software issues. Assisted a user in meeting requirements for web page development. Advised/counseled employees of the danger of sharing passwords. Provided training session on basic information security procedures in a group setting. Referred staff to appropriate policy regarding information security. Recommended and/or assisted in the development of a newsletter in order to keep staff informed of IT issues. Oral Communication: Assisted lead instructor to facilitate training exercise on IT related topic. Presented IT information to co-workers or other personnel during an informal training session. Briefed new employees on security procedures. Served as basic help-desk contact person for computer related systems and monitored incoming calls for assistance. Telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources. As necessary, communicated sensitive information relative to information security. Provided instructional course through team teaching. Communicated with end-users to resolve non routine computer hardware or software issues. Communicated non-technical computer security information to others. Assisted in providing training for new users. Taught staff to "log-in." Monitored incoming calls for LAN assistance. Advised supervisor when unexpected issues prohibit completion of a task by assigned date. Problem Solving: Eliminated configuration errors using debugging techniques. Called a program's technical support service center to discuss a problem and applied their recommended solutions. Isolated a programming problem and referred to technical support center or appropriate source for corrective action. Made recommendations and proposals to correct problems in maintaining a program system. Provided basic update/input to senior IT specialists which assisted in resolving general operating system or hardware problems. Solved general errors in computer programs. Assisted in testing and debugging according to associated system guidelines. Served on a computer security committee to resolve security issues affecting the organization. Diagnosed and solved system problems as member of a team to re-design a system. Coordinated efforts to integrate and install soft/hardware components during large-scale computer upgrade. Recommended large-scale upgrades of computer systems. Participated on inter-departmental teams which provided information on current system use and/or assists with the implementation of proposed solutions. Recognized and reported average to complicated network problems to lead technician or technical support staff for guidance and/or assistance in resolution. Eliminated procedural errors with debugging techniques. Recognized/resolved software problems by writing code in a series of programs to conform to a database update. Worked on teams which found solutions to IT problems. 1 You must meet the education requirement as described in the Vacancy Announcement OR meet the experience requirement (competencies and one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to the next lower grade level). Do you meet the education or experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants who meet the educational requirements for this position, DO NOT need to complete the competencies and specialized experience. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Computer Specialists must possess the ability to communicate both orally and in writing in order to convey complex/technical information to end-users of varying knowledge levels. He/she must possess the ability to clearly communicate policies, programs and procedures to be followed while using automated systems sanctioned by the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed end-user guides and facilitated training sessions that applied the guide; and/or I have modified training session curriculum based on knowledge level of participants; and/or I have briefed executive staff/top management on upcoming IT initiatives. I have established functional requirements documentation after communicating/resolving issues with agency/organization management on the specifications required; and/or I have developed and explained the technical procedures to be applied by a component of an agency/organization. I have assisted the lead instructor with facilitating a training exercise on IT related topics; and/or I have presented information to co-workers or other personnel during an informal training session; and/or I have assisted with the preparation of training materials. I have used existing documentation to communicate with and train staff; and/or I have communicated information both orally and in writing in a variety of settings (group, one-on-one, executive) in a manner understood by varying knowledge levels; and/or I have provided advice and guidance to co-workers, managers, etc., on various IT related issues; and/or I have responded to end-user inquires to resolve software problems encountered. None of the above. 3 Computer Specialists analyze system design needs, anticipate problems in computer programs and propose and implement appropriate solutions. In the process of advising management, they must develop alternative approaches to major aspects of system design, and must possess the ability to detect if problems are caused by user error or hardware/software error. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have piloted a new software system and monitored results prior to wide spread implementation; and/or I have reviewed proposed hardware equipment capability with present equipment, and provided justifications to purchase or not to purchase based on comparisons made; and/or I have detected and isolated a security problem and assisted with resolution of deficiency; and/or I have integrated/installed hardware components during a large scale computer upgrade. I have eliminated configuration errors using debugging techniques; and/or I have called a program's technical support service center to discuss problem and applied their recommended solutions; and/or I have isolated a programming problem and referred to technical support center or appropriate source for corrective action. I have recovered lost data from a taped backup; and/or I have solved problems independently by studying logical progression of an event which led to a problem and recommended a method to prevent a recurrence by modifying program; and/or I have used diagnostic programs to diagnose drive problems and either replaced a damaged disk drive or recovered the drive, as appropriate; and/or I have served as a team member tasked with redesigning system after a serious problem was detected/diagnosed. None of the above. 4 Computer Specialists are required to work on simultaneous projects on a continuous basis. He/she will be assigned oversight responsibility over several programs, and must possess the ability to effectively organize workload and prioritize assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have requested and justified resources (i.e., time, money, staff) required to complete complex projects; and/or I have provided Senior/Executive Level Management with documentation concerning Value on Investment (VOI), I have shown the overall effectiveness of the project including cost saving initiatives and predicted outcome of a project; and/or I have tested, measured, and/or reported analytical information which explained the effectiveness and/or efficiency of the projects assigned. I have participated on inter-departmental teams which provided information on current system use and/or assists with the implementation of proposed solutions; and/or I have provided management with information based on current and/or future trends of technology; and/or I have assisted management with determining resource requirements for a proposed project. I have performed liaison duties for an IT department; and/or I have provided input to Executive Staff on the feasibility of implementing the use of new software; and/or I have analyzed current processes/programs, and provided recommendations which would enhance capabilities, and/or make necessary changes to increase organization's efficiency; and/or I have prepared draft estimates for resources required to complete assigned tasks. None of the above. 5 Computer Specialists must possess comprehensive knowledge of network systems in order to maintain and manage current network setup and performance. Computer specialists must be able to describe the features and functions of networking components. He/she must possess the knowledge and skills needed to install, configure and troubleshoot basic networking hardware, protocols and services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and implemented network and/or modified existing networks (Token Ring to Ethernet conversion, split ring, redundancy, etc.); and/or I have estimated resources needed to implement network, including standards, protocols, and equipment requirements; and/or I have installed sniffers and/or other comparable network analyzing equipment; and/or I have analyzed statistics in a devised method to make the network more efficient, which was subsequently adopted by management. I have utilized routing protocols (i.e., TCP/IP, DNS, RIP) to assist in maintaining the integrity of the network; and/or I have tracked and recorded hardware specifications and configuration files; and/or I have recognized and reported average to complicated network problems to a lead technician or technical support staff for guidance and/or assistance in resolution. I have installed, maintained, and configured network equipment (network cards, cables, switches, hubs, routers, etc.); and/or I have troubleshooted and diagnosed most network problems (network cards, cables, switches, hubs, routers, etc.) and effectively implemented resolution to problems encountered; and/or I have provided technical assistance to end users on non-routine issues/problems. None of the above. 6 Computer Specialists are responsible for all technical, planning, operational and security issues concerning LAN. This includes, but is not limited to the servers, workstations, network cabling and network hardware. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have replaced/upgraded existing servers which resulted in increased efficiency and reliability; and/or I have created and implemented a backup solution which consolidated information (i.e., multiple servers backup to one tape backup unit); and/or I have tested/analyzed/implemented a new technology which increased the efficiency of administering a network (i.e., thin client and/or wireless solution). I have coordinated the creation, modification, and removal of user accounts and permissions of resources, as outlined in policy/guidelines; and/or I have performed internal/local level audits to ensure compliance with organization's policies; and/or I have troubleshooted and recognized basic LAN problems; and/or I have contacted a lead technician or technical support center for assistance in resolving most issues. I have assisted with the installation and configuration of network operating system; and/or I have interpreted documentation and applied necessary upgrades and/or changes in an effort to maintain compliance with agency/organization Information Security guidelines; and/or I have troubleshooted and recognized LAN problems, and provided recommendation for resolution. I have contacted support center for assistance during complex LAN issues; and/or I have coordinated the installation of software patches and updates; and/or I have coordinated virus protection software program monitoring within departments and explained the importance of protecting the network and data to end-users. None of the above. 7 Computer Specialists must continually ensure information security measures, as prescribed by governing regulations are being practiced by institutional staff. The incumbent employs both hardware and software safeguards, implements changes to current information security systems, and trains staff members on proper information security measures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended a modification to a department/agency/organization - wide security plan, including necessary resource requirements, which was implemented by management; and/or I have updated curriculum for training to encompass changes in information security requirements for a department/agency/organization. I have designed a portion of an agency/organization information security plan; and/or I have inspected various computer work sites to ensure information security procedures are in place and being consistently followed. I have advised/counseled employees of the danger of sharing passwords; and/or I have provided a training session on basic information security procedures in a group setting; and/or I have briefed new employees on information security procedures. I have detected a security deficiency in a software program and coordinated with the vendor to resolve; and/or I have controlled and maintained physical storage of media in accordance with policies and procedures; and/or I have reported serious security deficiencies to appropriate party for corrective action; and/or I have trained end-users on the spot to correct information security deficiencies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).