Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best reflect your ability to analyze statistical information? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience analyzing statistical information. I have formal undergraduate level education/ training analyzing statistical information. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have formal graduate level education analyzing statistical information. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have formal education / training and work experience in analyzing statistical information. I have analyzed statistical information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have analyzed statistical information as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Analyzing statistical information has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in analyzing statistical information and (or) others have consulted me as an expert. 5 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience collecting, analyzing and reporting on performance measurement data? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a superior or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a superior or senior coworker. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 7 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 9 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience in analyzing guidelines, policies, and procedures for the management of records throughout their life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior colleague. I have performed this task on the job under the supervision of a supervisor or senior colleague. I have education and/or training that demonstrates my analytical skills, but I have not performed this task. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I am experienced at performing this task and lead and/or train others. 10 With which of the following Quality Assurance / Quality Control activities do you have experience and/or training? Answer to this question is required I have assisted with developing a quality control program for specific projects. I have served as a quality control officer or representative. I have monitored quality control requirements for specific projects. I have developed a quality control program for a records management and/or archive control system. I have established quality control procedures and data entry conventions and monitored them to determine necessary improvements. I have no experience in applying quality control techniques, but I have related education and/or training. None of the above. 11 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 12 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the Job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 13 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 14 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a variety of databases to complete tasks such as: a project paper, report, or study; compile data or information needed to complete a project or program requirement; resolve a matter in dispute; or answer a question? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 16 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience using an electronic enterprise-wide or cloud-based document management system: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task as a regular part of the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. 17 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 18 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.