Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have given instruction and guidance to others on how to prevent damage/injury to items and individuals when moving materials. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Safety Data Sheets None of the above 4 Select the topics in which you have completed safety training. Answer to this question is required Forklift operation Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Proper lifting techniques Hazard awareness Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response Standard (Hazwoper) None of the above 5 Which equipment have you used to perform custodial tasks? Answer to this question is required Vacuums Floor Machines or Scrubbers Scrapers Safety Signs None of the above 6 I have read and interpreted shipping and receiving documents to identify discrepancies with incoming and outgoing material. Answer to this question is required True False 7 Do you have experience issuing and receiving or inspecting goods and materials in a warehouse, loading dock, or like setting?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using speciality cleaning equipment for sensitive surfaces such as copper, bronze and brass.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience. I have performed as an apprentice or under close supervision. I have independently cleaned equipment for sensitive surfaces such as copper, bronze and brass. I have led or instructed others on proper techniques. 9 Which tools or equipment have you used to move large or heavy items? Answer to this question is required Sliders Electrical fork lift Pallet jack Hand jack Manual dollies None of the above 10 In which locations have you inspected the completion of cleaning tasks performed by laborer and custodial crews? Answer to this question is required Offices Restrooms Building Lobbies Police Kiosks Cafeteria Elevators Stair Wells Locker rooms/showers Committee Rooms Storage Areas Floors (i.e. hallways, corridors, stairs, etc.) None of the above 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising workers who perform custodial duties? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed custodial work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 12 Have you trained others on the proper procedures for cleaning building areas, removing trash, or delivering items? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issues and receiving. Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment. Organized cleaning closets. Sanitize facilities. Labor tasks. None of the above. 14 Which Laborer tasks have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Loaded and unloaded hand trucks Performed maintenance on equipment Set up and arranged committee/conference rooms Assisted trade craftsmen with projects Removed ice and snow from building steps, sidewalks, and entrances Moved furniture and equipment Delivered collection containers Sorted a variety of recycled materials such as books, copper, brass, recycled newspapers, white and colored papers, bottles, or cans None of the above 15 Which floor care equipment have you used on the job? Answer to this question is required Vacuum cleaners Floor scrubbers Floor buffers Scrapers Mops/brooms None of the above 16 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with customers. Answer to this question is required I have resolved misunderstandings or disagreements about moving or cleaning procedures. I have explained moving or cleaning procedures. I have directed customers with questions to a senior employee. None of the above. 17 Which of the following written documents do you have experience preparing: Answer to this question is required Daily email correspondence to employees, peers, and management Incident Reports Cleaning Reports Performance Evaluations Letters of counseling Quality checklists None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.