Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Licensure: Applicants for all grade levels and specializations must be currently licensed to practice as dental hygienists in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia. NOTE: Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Essentially, they must (l) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as radiographers in their field. The following meet these requirements: Persons employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel prior to the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986) who show evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others. Persons first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel after the effective date of the regulation who (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, provided that such persons show evidence of training, experience, and competence as determined by OPM or the employing agency. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements described in A. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload proof of current, active and unrestricted license for verification at the time you apply. Applicants must also electronically upload evidence of completing a program that certifies them to administer X-rays or perform radiologic procedures. Evidence of program completion includes a transcript or documentation that includes your course work in administering X-rays or performing radiologic procedures. Self certification of program completion will not be accepted. Your documentation must be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-07 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-08 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-08 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. You do not need to compete for this job if you are a GL/GS-08 or higher or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08.&nbsp; You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. As of July 31, 2022, &nbsp;the promotion potential of all Correctional Officers (GL/GS-05/06), Seniors Officers (GL/GS-07) has been reclassified to a Senior Officer Specialist (GL/GS-08). If you are a GL/GS-0007-05, 06, 07 or 08 (Correctional Officer, Senior Officer or Senior Officer Specialist) as of July 31, 2022 , YOU DO NOT NEED TO COMPETE for this job. Please select one of the answers below in the question to follow: Yes, I am currently at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-08 level without my having to compete. NOTE : If you were previously a Correctional Officer GL/GS-0007-05/06/07 and vacated the position prior to July 31, 2022 , you would NOT meet the career ladder GL/GS-08 of this position and therefore will need to compete for the GL/GS-08. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-07 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-08 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Dental Hygienist must have knowledge of oral hygiene in order to prevent infection and instruct patients in proper dental care. He/she must provide comprehensive oral health education and dental hygiene treatment to different patient groups with assistance from members of the dental services staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a preventive program for multi-dentist and hygienist facilities; and/or I have developed surveillance system to determine the oral health needs of the institution population (i.e., prevalence and incidence studies); and/or I have implemented public health programs and curriculum to target special need populations; and/or I have assisted Chief Dentist and others in the selection of qualified contractor personnel; and/or I have developed and conducted training for contractor and new staff. I have assisted in development of preventive program for multi-dentist facilities; and/or I have assisted in conducting aggressive preventive maintenance and oral hygiene programs for various individual patients or groups of patients (i.e., diabetic, cancer, psychiatric, geriatric, alcoholic, and physically challenged patients); and/or I have ensured dental clinic met American Dental Association (ADA) and other guidelines for infection control; and/or I have worked with and re-assured patients who were nervous, fearful, or unfamiliar with dental procedures; and/or I have adjusted to different styles of dentistry as provided by various contractors; and/or I have assisted with training new staff, contractors, as needed. I have as needed, revised procedures for instructing inmate patients in oral hygiene, brushing/flossing techniques, and periodontal aids; and/or I have as improvement and/or policies changed, planned and adapted instructions for in home care techniques; and/or I have regularly instructed nurses and nursing assistants in the latest proper techniques of oral hygiene; and/or I have presented information on oral health care for various patient groups/individuals. None of the above. 6 The Dental Hygienist is responsible for making the necessary preparation for each treatment and providing pre- and post- treatment patient services.&nbsp;He/she develops procedural instructions to be used by dental hygienists, dental assistants, dieticians, nutritionists as well as the nursing staff in the delivery of oral health care to patients.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prior to surgery, prepared appropriate instruments; and/or I have provided post-operative treatment information to patient regarding self-care; and/or I have conducted basic orientation classes for new hygienists and patients regarding expectation(s) and basic procedures for dental surgery. I have ensured assistant and inmate workers maintained a clean and disinfected operative environment consistent with all American Dental Association (ADA) and other guidelines; and/or I have after reviewing the medical history, prepared patients for periodontal surgery by performing deep scaling; and/or I have prepared patient by performing root planning therapy; and/or I have recorded pocket depth and severity of disease; and/or I have recognized and identified systemic or medical conditions that can affect periodontal health pre- and post-surgically; and/or I have only if trained and licensed, administered local anesthetic injections. I have after reviewing x-rays, refreshed Dentist regarding planned operative procedure(s); and/or I have prepared appropriate operative equipment and materials; and/or I have consistent with protocol, provided patients with post-operative treatment care; and/or I have personally sterilized instruments consistent with all policies; and/or I have post-operatively, removed sutures at the appropriate time. None of the above. 7 The Dental Hygienist must be able to take various types of x-rays, position patients properly for x-rays, develop x-ray film or utilize digital imaging equipment, and maintain radiographic equipment.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exposed bite wing and panoramic x-rays; and/or I have positioned film and machine to ensure coverage of the area to be x-rayed; and/or I have exposed lateral head x-rays of the oral cavity; and/or I have selected types of radiographs necessary for patient’s mouth; and/or I have interpreted routine x-rays to identify tooth structures, calculus, and abnormalities; and/or I have determined the Kilovoltage peak (KVP) needed for varying teeth (i.e., molars vs incisors) as well as bone density. I have utilized digital software for radiographs; and/or I have manipulated radiography for accurate diagnosis; and/or I have maintained a computer database of digital dental images; and/or I have made digital panoramic and periapical images; and/or I have used the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Guidelines for prescribing dental radiographs; and/or I have managed radiological safety in a dental setting (i.e., tracking and recording of dosimetry meters, timely testing of patient barriers/shields). I have adjusted voltage, amperage and timing of x-ray equipment; and/or I have maintained specialized equipment; and/or I have cleaned and prepared solution tanks; and/or I have maintained automated film processing equipment or digital imaging equipment; and/or I have adjusted film speed, filtration and cone length as necessary. None of the above. 8 The Dental Hygienist must be an effective communicator educating patients, physicians, superiors and peers about oral health, explaining procedures, and building trust, ultimately leading to better patient outcomes and satisfaction. He/she has the capacity to collaborate with dentists and other members of the health care team to ensure a coordinated approach to patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a work group; and/or I have conducted training for agency audience at a training facility or for professional organizations; and/or I have gave formal presentations to management of an agency/organization/industry; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding the industry operations; and/or I have gave formal presentations at job fairs, community events or vendor fairs; and/or I have provided orientation/mentoring for all newly hired contractors. I have explained the relationship of good oral hygiene and nutrition to inmates or patients related to dental caries and periodontal disease; and/or I have explained how basic nutrition and the abstinence from tobacco and alcohol relates to good oral health; and/or I have counseled inmates or patients regarding the risk factor for oral cancer; and/or I have assisted with providing basic training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have explained newly implemented policy or procedure to contractors; and/or I have asked the patient open ended questions and summarized what the patient had said to ensure understanding; and/or I have explained dental conditions and taught proper oral hygiene techniques; and/or I have made recommendations to help patients select toothbrushes and other oral devices; and/or I have assisted with handling disruptive inmates or patients). I have provided informal professional training to mid-level managers; and/or I have summarized key findings and concerns for the dentist to address; and/or I have conducted initial patient exams, discussed oral health history, and identified any concerns that needed to be brought to the dentist's attention; and/or I have made the dentist aware of the patient's understanding and any barriers to treatment; and/or I have counseled patients to practice good dental health who presented with patient-behavioral and communication challenges; and/or I have educated patients on proper brushing and flossing techniques, the importance of fluoride, and the impact of diet on oral health; and/or I have used visual aids such as photographs, charts or models to illustrate oral health issues and ensure patients understand their treatment plan; and/or I have supervised inmates in the dental department. I have or I have explained the disease process, the role of bacteria in caries and periodontal health, and provided information on home care and recommended oral care aids; and/or I have communicated the importance of preventive care and the consequences of delaying treatment; and/or I have counseled inmates or patients in a correctional institution or clinical setting which presented significant patient behavior and communication problems (i.e., instructed and developed program for patients who are mentally ill or instructed and developed program for patients who have profound physical handicaps); and/or I have managed highly aggressive inmates or patients. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).