Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce. ** Demonstrated proficiency in the following competencies: 1) Planned or adjusted work by identifying requirements, staff, time and resources to accomplish goals; 2) Solved problems by anticipating and analyzing facts to reach a conclusion; 3) Enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, monitoring productivity and holding staff accountable; 4) Ensured quality control by monitoring integrity of work performed; 5) Exhibited fair treatment of others by being aware of, responding to, and considering the needs and capabilities of staff and handling issues with tact; 6) Demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity and considering others ideas; 7) Implemented improvement of current processes and work quality through innovation and continuous development; 8) Motivated and gave direction with constructive feedback and coaching; and 9) Created a work environment that fosters creativity and integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing EIGHT (8) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing at least SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions. ** Developed, planned, and evaluated strategies needed to coordinate and resolve organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Analyzed highly complex or unique issues and problems with organization-wide impact, including regulations, organizational policies, and procedures; evaluated alternatives and disputed facts to arrive at sound logical solutions; provided timely recommendations for modification or improvement; performed a primary role in the development of program evaluation strategies/methods; and ensured quality goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Analyzed and assessed regulations, organizational policies, and procedures. Performed a primary role in resolving issues that significantly impacted program administration and contributed to the development of program evaluation strategies/methods. Analyzed issues and problems related to the established program goals and objectives and contributed to the development of program evaluation strategies/methods. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of contract preparation and contractor monitoring policies and procedures. ** Worked as a contract officer representative (COR), monitoring, evaluating, and overseeing IT contract activities performing the following activities: 1) coordinating contract administration activities for technical service contracts; 2) overseeing technical evaluations of work performed by contractors in the installation and/or maintenance of hardware and software products; 3) initiating revisions to meet changing program requirements; 4) drafting statements of work; 5) collaborating with vendors and end users to ensure contract requirements are met and activities are performed in compliance with the terms of the contract; and 6) reviewing the work product of contract personnel, including accepting, amending or rejecting their work. Answer to this question is required Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing IT contract activities, performing ALL of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing IT contract activities, performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing IT contract activities, performing THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of IT Troubleshooting Methodologies. Leveraged knowledge of troubleshooting IT systems to lead a team in resolving a complex technical issue by performing the following techniques: 1) identify the problem, 2) identify theory of probably cause, 3) validate the theory, 4) develop action plan, 5) execute action plan, 6) evaluate results, and 7) document and continuously improve. Answer to this question is required Have experience working in ALL of the technical areas listed above. Have experience working in FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the technical areas listed above. Have experience working in THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the technical areas listed above. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to apply project management methodologies and techniques to plan and manage complex IT projects. Applied project management methods and techniques principles, methods, tools and standards to plan and manage complex IT projects through all phases of the systems life cycle. Answer to this question is required Managed complex IT projects including those impacting organizations of over 3,000 individuals, demonstrating EXPERT/IN-DEPTH knowledge of project management. Managed complex IT projects including those impacting organizations of over 1,000 individuals, demonstrating IN-DEPTH knowledge of project management. Managed complex IT projects including those impacting organizations 500 to 1000 individuals, demonstrating IN-DEPTH knowledge of project management. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products including: 1) performance evaluations, 2) project management and SDLC documentation, 3) policy directives, 4) reports, 5) contracts, 6) formal and informal correspondence, 7) spreadsheets, and other analytical documents. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, wrote and edited ALL of the documents listed above. As a principal author, wrote and edited FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the documents listed above, including, 2) project management and SDLC documentation. As a principal author, wrote and edited THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the documents listed above, including 2) project management and SDLC documentation. None of the Above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).