Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience (as described above) that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best represents your level of experience in dealing with people from different cultures/countries? Answer to this question is required I have developed training on how to deal with people from different cultures/countries. I have delivered training on how to deal with people from different cultures/countries. I have received training on deal with people from different cultures/countries. I have lived overseas. I have worked in the immigration services field. None of the above. 5 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required published in peer reviewed journal. created working papers or research reports. completed a dissertation. completed a master's thesis. presented paper(s) at professional conferences. written policy position papers/briefs. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 8 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with independently applying rules and regulations? Answer to this question is required I have independently applied rules and regulations on a daily basis. I have applied rules and regulations with limited supervision. I have applied rules and regulations with considerable supervision. I have education or training related to this area, but I have no experience in performing this task in the workplace. I have no education or experience related to applying rules and regulations. 9 Select the party or parties to whom you have provided advice on governing laws and regulations: Answer to this question is required Internal customer External customers Management Peers Subordinates None of the above 10 Do you have experience explaining rules and regulations to members of the public and/or other non-technical audiences orally? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Do you have experience communicating findings and concepts to non-technical audiences in writing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following best reflects your experience conducting program research to solve problems and aid in decision-making? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have both formal education/ training in this area and work experience in this area. I have formal education/training and extensive on the job experience in this area. None of the above. 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience determining the legal, regulatory and policy issues involved in cases and the subsequent analysis, research and additional investigative fact-finding required to bring a case to closure? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required published in peer reviewed journal. created working papers or research reports. completed a dissertation. completed a master's thesis. presented paper(s) at professional conferences. written policy position papers/briefs. None of the above 16 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 17 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers and or customers? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. I have no experience performing this task. 18 I have utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the following area(s): Answer to this question is required Dealt successfully with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed. Dealt successfully with individuals who do not speak English as a first language. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action. Succeeded in working with co-workers, supervisors and high level management. None of the above. 19 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience with applying the nationality laws of the United States? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 20 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training devoted to citizenship law? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses and or had training in citizenship law. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on citizenship law. I majored in an area related to citizenship law in college. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in citizenship law. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.