Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and&nbsp;educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, and meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must possess certification in wound care from one of the national certifying bodies, such as the Wound, Ostomy and continence Nursing Certification Board (WOCNCB), The American Association of Wound Management (AAWM) or the National Alliance of Wound Care and Ostomy (NAWCO). The wound care certifying body should be recognized by the American Board of Nursing Specialties (ABNS) or the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA). Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess a certification in wound care from a nationally recognized certifying body as listed above. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit certification in wound care from a nationally recognized certifying body. This documentation MUST be electronically uploaded at the time you apply. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-10 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-10 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-10, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-10 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-10 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-10 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-10 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-10 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-10 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-10, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-10, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-09 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-10 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 The Wound Care Specialist - RN in a specialty role practice is based upon the general practice experience of an RN and uses the nursing process to evaluate and provide recommendations for management for inmate patient care delivered by other healthcare providers and support staff assigned to Bureau of Prisons institutions. The RN in a specialty role has an expanded practice based upon specialty knowledge and skills which are performed within the context of consultation, medically delegated tasks, and protocols. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have observed and assessed a patient’s condition and determined the proper course of action; and/or I have analyzed patient outcomes to determine the effectiveness of interventions; and/or I have administered infrequently used or special medications (i.e., chemotherapy medications, continuous Intravenous (IV) medication infusions); and/or I have initiated an emergency response and operated special equipment; and/or I have set up and operated a wide range of medical equipment (i.e., cardiac monitors, arterial lines respirators, defibrillators, endotracheal suction equipment); and/or I have closely observed post-operative and seriously ill patients for adverse conditions and reactions; and/or I have co-led a multi-disciplinary team to evaluate or manage a health care problem (i.e., fall reduction, catheter associated urinary tract infection, pressure ulcer prevention). I have planned, implemented and evaluated nursing care; and/or I have assimilated quality management data into the planning and development of nursing care; and/or I have performed nursing care surveys as prescribed by the Joint Commission and initiated corrective actions; and/or I have coordinated multi-disciplinary teams to update treatment plans and completed corrective actions; and/or I have participated in multiple emergency situations of various categories, such as medical response teams, fire safety, disaster drills; and/or I have taught nursing care principles, practices and procedures to new nurses. I have provided emergency treatment to accident victims or provided resuscitative measures; and/or I have assisted in the care of minor yet comprehensive treatment for less complicated injuries; and/or I have assisted in the implementation of holistic patient care procedures outlined within a patient care plan; and/or I have assisted in initiation/maintaining intravenous therapy. None of the above. 8 The Wound Care Specialist - RN must have extensive knowledge of wound care prevention strategies, which include the development of programs and policies, knowledge of staging and categorization of risk and the use of durable medical goods to meet patient needs, enhance quality of care, and improve patient outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified appropriate incidence goals for the prevention of pressure ulcers and benchmarked those goals for similar care settings; and/or I have developed or managed a program for the prevention pressure ulcerations in an inpatient setting; and/or I have evaluated patients for lower extremity edema, identified venous insufficiency and initiated appropriate interventions; and/or I have conducted a foot assessment for a patient including a 5.07 (10gm) monofilament test for presence of protective sensation and communicated findings to the primary care provider team for coordination care for the prevention of neuropathic foot ulcers. I have staged pressure ulcers in patients using the National Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel (NPUAP) staging recommendations; and/or I have conducted a pressure ulcer risk assessment for a patient using a validated assessment tool (i.e., Braden Scale) and recommended interventions for the prevention of pressure ulcers; and/or I have taught pressure ulcer prevention interventions (i.e., turning and repositioning, pressure relief exercises in a wheelchair, management of incontinence) to a patient identified as at risk for pressure ulcer development. I have collected incidence data for the development of wounds within a health care setting and communicated the data to the immediate supervisor; and/or I have applied the prescribed compression therapy for a patient diagnosed with venous insufficiency; and/or I have provided and documented patient education regarding preventative strategies for neuropathic/diabetic foot ulcers or venous insufficiency ulcers. None of the above. 9 The Wound Care Specialist - RN must have comprehensive knowledge of wound assessment. He/she will develop strategic treatment protocols for the identification of common wound types and the treatment and management of acute and chronic wounds for inmate patient care delivered by other healthcare providers and support staff assigned to Bureau of Prisons institutions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed a wound assessment including wound size measurement, drainage characteristics and condition of the peri-wound skin; and/or I have removed patient’s dressing, cleansed wound with prescribed cleanser, applied the prescribed dressing and documented the dressing change in the patient’s chart; and/or I have recognized wound related signs and symptoms which should be reported to a provider for further evaluation. I have completed a comprehensive wound assessment and determined the most likely mechanism of injury (etiology) and stage of healing and coordinated treatment with the primary medical team; and/or I have provided a follow-up wound assessment for a patient and determined whether the previously established healing goals were met and communicated findings to the primary medical team; and/or I have determined the need for durable medical equipment to provide for offloading or protection of an ulcerated area; and/or I have selected a dressing to treat a wound and provided a reassessment to determine the effectiveness of the dressing. I have recognized the need for the removal of necrotic tissue in a wound bed and collaborated with the primary medical team to determine the most appropriate type of debridement to use; and/or I have, after removal of a dressing, recognized normal findings associated with autolytic debridement of necrotic tissue in a wound bed; and/or I have assessed a wound and differentiated between signs of critical colonization and cellulitis; and/or I have performed an assessment of wound related pain differentiating acute and chronic pain, as well as episodic pain related to wound treatments. None of the above. 10 The Wound Care Specialist - RN must have a comprehensive set of skills necessary to provide for effective management of acute and chronic wounds. Skills recognized as medically delegated are performed by the RN in a specialty role within the context of consultation, medically designated tasks, and practice protocol. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed conservative sharp debridement of the wound to promote healing; and/or I have identified indications for wound tissue sampling for culture and/or dermatopathology and coordinated procedure with the primary care team; and/or I have identified goals, with patients and coordinated the use of advanced treatments for wound healing with the primary care team. I have identified the need for wound debridement for wound healing and coordinated with the primary care team; and/or I have identified pseudoverrucous (hyperplastic like) tissue and treated with chemical cauterization; and/or I have selected antiseptics or antimicrobial agents dressings for the treatment of critical colonization. I have performed a swab culture of the wound bed and communicated results with the primary care team; and/or I have evaluated foot pulse presence and quality using a hand held Doppler device; and/or I have applied negative pressure wound. None of the above. 11 The Wound Care Specialist - RN will provide training to staff related to educating, new product and equipment evaluation, as well as policy and procedure development. He/she assists health services staff in developing or selecting appropriate patient education materials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided hands on teaching regarding a patient care skill to health care staff or providers (i.e., intravenous line insertion, foley catheter insertion); and/or I have assisted in the development of patient education materials regarding prevention or treatment of some aspect of patient care; and/or I have reviewed health care related polices for use in a healthcare setting. I have demonstrated to a new staff member how to perform a patient care skill (i.e., insertion of an intravenous line, insertion of a Foley catheter); and/or I have identified patient education resources as part of an orientation for new staff; and/or I have demonstrated for new staff how to explain complex medications and medical problems using laymen’s terms to inmates involving conditions such as coronary heart disease, diabetes, hypertension. I have provided hands on teaching regarding a wound care skill to health care staff or providers; and/or I have developed patient education materials regarding the prevention or treatment of wound care; and/or I have reviewed wound care related policies for use in a healthcare setting. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).