Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead and supervise a diverse workforce.** Led, supervised and managed a diverse staff including: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) evaluated work performance, 4) interviewed candidates for positions, 5) heard and resolved employee complaints, 6) identified developmental/training needs, 7) communicated organizational policies to the staff, 8) recommended awards for employees, 9) reviewed and approved serious disciplinary actions, 10) found ways to improve production quality, and 11) created and fostered a culture encouraging diversity and high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised the FULL range of supervisory personnel management responsibilities including ALL of the above. Exercised a range of supervisory personnel management responsibilities including EIGHT (8), NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above. Exercised a range of supervisory personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) of the above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to lead and manage special events for a cultural institution.** Directed and administered the development and management of special events and public programs for an organization or agency. Managed complex and multiple projects related to the oversight and administration of mission critical agency programs by performing the following: 1) reviewing long and short-range plans and resource projections, 2) developing and implementing strategic plans, 3) setting performance targets, 4) translating program goals and objectives into measurable accomplishments, 5) monitoring the workflow throughout the event planning stages, 6) overseeing plans to ensure conformity with agency regulations and safety requirements, 7) developing budget plans, and 8) advising top management on policy matters related to event management. Answer to this question is required As the principal special events manager for a cultural institution or organization, had overall responsibility for the oversight and administration of a SEVERAL mission critical program of NATIONAL AND/OR INTERNATIONAL scope and impact. In doing so, performed ALL of the above tasks. As the principal special events manager for a cultural institution or organization, had overall responsibility for the oversight and administration of one or more mission critical programs of NATIONAL AND/OR INTERNATIONAL scope and impact. In doing so, performed SIX or SEVEN of the above tasks. As the principal special events manager for a cultural institution or organization, had overall responsibility for the oversight and administration of one or more mission critical programs of NATIONAL AND/OR INTERNATIONAL scope and impact. In doing so, performed FOUR or FIVE of the above tasks. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to provide program and policy advice and guidance.** Served as an advisor on policies and procedures related to event operations in ALL of the following functional areas: 1) policy and guidance, 2) workflow, 3) complex problems or issues, 4) analysis of project or program planning, 5) compliance with Americans with Disability Act (ADA), and 6) analysis and evaluation of economic impact. Counsels management and staff on appropriate methods and techniques to achieve program goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required Served as an advisor to senior management and other officials at multiple levels in an organization on ALL of the above matters related to event operations. Developed and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs. Served as an advisor to senior management and other officials at multiple levels in an organization on FIVE (5) of the above matters related to event operations. Developed and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs. Served as an advisor to senior management and other officials at multiple levels in an organization on FOUR (4) of the above matters related to event operations. Developed and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote factual, analytic, and persuasive business documents for diverse audiences and in various formats, including: 1) project plans, 2) budgets, 3) policies and procedures, 4) official correspondence, 5) speeches/presentation, 6) grant proposals/statements of work, 7) work performance, and 8) studies on special event programs. Serves as the final review authority for style, grammar and format of correspondence. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, regularly wrote various factual, analytic, and persuasive documents for an agency or organization’s executive or management decision-making including ALL of the above. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. Responsible for clarity, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness of documents. As a job responsibility, regularly wrote various factual, analytic, and persuasive documents for an agency or organization including SEVEN (7) of the above. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. Responsible for clarity, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness of documents. As a job responsibility, regularly wrote various factual, analytic, and persuasive documents including SIX (6) of the above. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. Responsible for clarity, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness of documents. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked cooperatively and developed professional relationships with decision-makers and their staffs, supervisors, other managers, specialists, experts, co-workers, and customers to accomplish goals and resolve problems and issues. This included actively seeking input and contributing own expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required Independently and actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines and work groups INSIDE AND/OR OUTSIDE AN ORGANIZATION/AGENCY to accomplish HIGHLY COMPLEX, mission-critical activities. Actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines and work groups INSIDE AND/OR OUTSIDE AN ORGANIZATION/AGENCY to accomplish MODERATELY COMPLEX activities. Actively collaborated with persons WITHIN ONE’S OWN DIVISION or ORGANIZATION. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).