Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. A master's degree in social work in a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. 2 In addition to minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office at the time you apply. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must possess a license as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker (LICSW), or equivalent unrestricted, independent, clinical license. Do you meet the selective factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess a license as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker (LICSW), or equivalent unrestricted, independent, clinical license. No, I do not possess the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit their license for Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, or equivalent unrestricted, independent, clinical license for verification. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office at the time you apply. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Supervisory Social Worker must work closely and collaborate with a wide variety of individuals and agencies to optimize continuity of care and to develop resources.&nbsp; He/she must effectively communicate and provide professional advisory services and training to institution and regional executive staff, healthcare professionals, and administrative personnel. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided orientation/mentorship with accredited Schools of Social Work to enhance collaboration and recruitment; and/or I have facilitated and led interdisciplinary meetings with health professionals (i.e., physicians, nurses and rehabilitative staff); and/or I have participated in decision making discussions; and/or I have located key agencies and contacted personnel to facilitate working relationships; and/or I have provided direct social work services to clients via telephonic or video conferencing equipment; and/or I have assisted with training of new social workers in assigned location; and/or I have conducted staff assist visits; and/or I have oversaw and provided advice and guidance to other social work services for institution executive staff and health services clinical and administrative staff. I have testified on behalf of the facility and the agency regarding handling of inmates/staff and medical/mental health treatment; and/or I have met regularly with inmates/staff/institutional staff to resolve complaints and address issues of mutual concern; and/or I have advised executive staff and senior management on technical and professional aspects of social services matters, such as current status of operations and program accomplishments; and/or I have conveyed necessary guidance to include training of newly assigned institution staff; and/or I have provided briefings to local executive staff responsible for oversight of health programs and operations; and/or I have provided specialized clinical social work services to individuals, groups, and agencies such as attorneys, Federal Probation Officers, Court Services and Offender Supervision (CSOSA), physicians/hospital personnel, Veterans Administration (VA) Hospitals, and Public Health Officers. I have provided orientation/mentorship with accredited Schools of Social Work to enhance collaboration and recruitment; and/or I have facilitated and led interdisciplinary meetings with health professionals (i.e., physicians, nurses and rehabilitative staff); and/or I have participated in decision making discussions; and/or I have located key agencies and contacted personnel to facilitate working relationships; and/or I have provided direct social work services to clients via telephonic or video conferencing equipment; and/or I have assisted with training of new social workers in assigned location; and/or I have conducted staff assist visits; and/or I have oversaw and provided advice and guidance to other social work services for institution executive staff and health services clinical and administrative staff. I have advised or provided helpful input to other disciplines; and/or I have collaborated with healthcare providers and outside agency officials regarding mental health or medical treatment needs for clients/inmates releasing to Residential Reentry Centers, (RRC) or home detention; and/or I have delivered presentations at a national or local social work or multidisciplinary conference; and/or I have participated in interviews and the selection recommendation process for Social Work positions. None of the above. 7 The Supervisory Social Worker provides technical guidance and expertise through various written directives, policies and procedures.&nbsp; He/she must be able to develop treatment and re-entry plans for high priority inmates with complex medical and mental health needs, as well as develop transition plans for compassionate release cases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided all or part of the content used in developing a program or policy; and/or I have shared written program materials with other departments or agencies; and/or I have developed and performed complex literature and programmatic studies to identify new or improve upon existing approaches. I have established written program policies and procedures for a specific program; and/or I have developed transition plans and procedures for compassionate release cases for clients with specialized needs (i.e., skilled nursing facilities, dialysis center, hospice care, etc.); and/or I have written program manuals or guidelines which were used by other departments or agencies; and/or I have contributed written articles or policies to newsletters, journals or other publications. I have notified individuals or others in writing of decisions, problems or further actions needed; and/or I have maintained electronic communication with program managers; and/or I have developed checklists and guidelines shared within the agency. None of the above. 8 The Supervisory Social Worker must be able to evaluate procedures, results, relationships and interactions to improve mission accomplishment in response to statutory regulatory compliance needs. He/she must be able to collect information from a variety of sources, organize the information, identify problems, and recommend action.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed program review findings to identify and improve service delivery to clients; and/or I have assisted in compiling data from written/oral assessments; and/or I have maintained information on clients/patients; and/or I have organized records and updated database files. I have developed/evaluated the effectiveness of new programs objectives and processes to improve the quality of healthcare in the agency; and/or I have collaborated with national, state, and voluntary agencies in organizing and facilitating the development of adequate social services; and/or I have determined resource requirements based on program or project objectives or operational needs; and/or I have identified processes or issues related to clinical social work delivery which were improved or resolved through the collection of data and recommendation; and/or I have coordinated projects to collect and analyze data leading to the resolution of an existing problems; and/or I have collected and analyzed complex data. I have conducted social assessments through organized studies (e.g., conducted social assessments through organized studies/programs); and/or I have evaluated social service programs for compliances with federal laws and federal regulations; and/or I have presented a written evaluation of documented information in a patient’s medical record; and/or I have implemented a database of all cases referred for services to provide technical and research information; and/or I have provided recommendations as part of their role in quality management performance improvement projects. None of the above. 9 The Supervisory Social Worker must have current knowledge of the principles, philosophies, and professional values related to the field of social work and how they relate to a correctional environment. &nbsp;He/she advises on technical and professional aspects of social service matters and must present both clinical and administrative expertise.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in specialized mental health and medical services committees and panels, including Risk Assessment Panel Reviews and Reduction in Sentence committees; and/or I have directed and managed a department of medical and psychiatric/mental health social workers providing social work services in both medical and mental health delivery systems; and/or I have evaluated patients as part of a multidisciplinary team and made recommendations for treatment; and/or I have practiced holistic social work in a medical or psychiatric environment. I have co-led individual or group counseling sessions; and/or I have developed educational lesson plans at the institutional or regional level; and/or I have used medical and mental health terminology, diagnosis, and treatment procedures while performing services for inmates/clients; and/or I have provided recommendations for community based-alternative services; and/or I have interacted with community serves providers to assure appropriate referrals. I have designed a group therapy treatment program; and/or I have offered specialized professional counseling to diverse groups of various demographic backgrounds; and/or I have enhanced an existing program to achieve treatment goals; and/or I have organized a family assistance program. I have created a social work program that could be replicated at other locations within in the agency due to its effectiveness; and/or I have provided clinical social work supervision to social workers seeking advanced licensure; and/or I have performed the full range of clinical social work services, including individual, family, and group counseling and psychotherapy involving the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of individuals with disorders as categorized in the DSM V-TR (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders); and/or I have developed treatment and re-entry plans for high priority clients/inmates who present complex medical and mental health needs. None of the above. 10 The Supervisory Social Worker must assign responsibility and delegate authority to subordinates in order to accomplish tasks in a timely manner and make most efficient use of resources.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have oversaw the activities of correctional workers week or equivalent event; and/or I have sought out by peers for advice/guidance on work related issues; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have conducted performance counseling sessions with subordinate employees; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force/committee which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions; and/or I have delegated authority to subordinate employees to accomplish the mission of the department/unit/office. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).