Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal Service. Such experience was in or related to the position to be filled and has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position. I have completed at least four (4) years of education above high school in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college, or university. I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed education and experience that meets the experience requirements. None of the above. 2 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience problem solving customer service issues. Answer to this question is required I have identified customer service problems and notified senior employees for resolution. I generated ideas and proposed solutions to customer service problems. I independently developed and implemented solutions to resolve customer service problems. I provided guidance to others on how to resolve customer service problems. None of the above. 3 Which issues have you encountered and resolved in your professional experience? Answer to this question is required Customers who are expecting a unique shopping experience. Customers who are looking for a specific retail item. Customers seeking a product or service that is no longer available. Customers who request products which do not exist due to current policy. Customers who have difficult or challenging expectations of service. Customers who expect individual attention and customized service. None of the above. 4 Which have you orally communicated to visitors or customers? Answer to this question is required Merchandise recommendations Guidance with the checkout process Location of specific policies, restrictions, and written guidance Alternative suggestions for products and/or services None of the above 5 Do you have experience maintaining a positive demeanor and conversational tone when providing repetitive information to others (e.g., answering the same questions throughout the day)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience responding to impromptu questions accurately in unstructured settings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select the oral communication activities you have performed while in a customer service function. Answer to this question is required Worked at a front desk or other position where I served as a primary point-of-contact for customers. Worked in a high volume sales environment offering guidance and services. Actively engaged one-on-one with customers in conversation and offering assistance. Worked as part of a team to provide services. None of the above. 8 Select the types of individuals you have worked with on a team to accomplish goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Individuals with a different level of skill than my own. Individuals with a different level of education than my own. Individuals from a different culture than my own. Individuals whose native language is different from my own. Individuals from a different socio-economic status than my own. Individuals from a different generation than my own. None of the above. 9 Select the types of individuals you have interacted with to provide sales assistance while ensuring rules, policies, and procedures were followed. Answer to this question is required Parents or chaperones responsible for children. Children and teens. Individuals who didn`t speak English fluently. Elderly individuals. Strongly opinionated or stubborn individuals. High-status individuals (e.g., Members of Congress). None of the above. 10 Which strategies have you applied to interact with people from diverse backgrounds? Answer to this question is required Asking questions to clarify information. Gathering information about the person`s interests and preferences and specific needs. Approaching and offering assistance to people who look confused or disoriented. Observing individuals to determine if additional services are needed. Offering recommendations to improve service. None of the above. 11 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others. Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked. Offered coverage to ensure others received a break. Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality was maintained. Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets). None of the above. 12 Do you have experience remaining calm and professional when interacting with difficult or demanding individuals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which tasks have you performed to assess customer needs? Answer to this question is required Monitored customer comments or conversations to identify opportunities to give assistance. Observed customer body language. Provided one-on-one assistance. Observed customer mobility or physical capabilities. Determined customer`s ability to communicate in English. Elicited information from customers about specific needs and expectations. Proactively asked customers if they needed assistance. None of the above. 14 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by providing solutions to their inquiries. I have resolved customer service problems by offering alternative solutions to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 15 Which customer service roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Retail Cashier Personal shopper or salesperson Independent sales person Concierge in a hotel or tourist venue Associate in a museum or historical venue Tour guide Commissioned sales person Restaurant host or server None of the above 16 Which tasks have you performed to assist customers? Answer to this question is required Greeted or welcomed customers into an establishment. Assisted customers with the check-out process only. Actively engaged customers to better assist them and encourage purchasing. Directed customers to specific locations and provided additional information about the shop and/or venue. Provided a full range of assistance from greeting through the check-out process. None of the above. 17 Do you have experience identifying and addressing customer needs to ensure that disabilities or language barriers do not detract from their experience of a facility, event, or service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Select the statement that best describes the highest volume of customers you have interacted with in a professional role. Answer to this question is required I have interacted with customers continuously during a full workday, with an uninterrupted flow of customer or group arrivals. I have interacted with a high volume of customers during a full workday, with less than a 10 minutes break between the arrival of customers or groups. I have interacted with a moderate volume of customers during a full workday, with a 10 to 30 minute break between the arrival of customers or groups. I have interacted with a small volume of customers during a full workday, with a 30 to 60 minute break between the arrival of customers or groups. None of the above 19 Which of the following groups of people do you have experience working with? Answer to this question is required I have worked with individuals with a different level of skill than my own. I have worked with individuals from a different technical discipline than my own. I have worked with individuals with a different level of education than my own. . I have worked with individuals from a different culture than my own. I have worked with individuals from a different generation than my own. None of the above. 20 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others. Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked. Offered coverage to ensure others received a break. Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality was maintained. Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets). None of the above. 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.