Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Which refrigerant certifications do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required Type I Certification Type II Certification Type III Certification Certified Ventilation Consultant (CVC) certification Universal Certification R-410A Technician Certification None of the above 3 Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience operating and maintaining utility systems. Answer to this question is required I independently perform corrective and preventative maintenance on boilers, chillers, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, compressors, and emergency power equipment. I operate the computer system to observe equipment readings and systems parameters. I am able to recognize abnormal conditions and situations from computer output, alarms, and printouts and proceed to restore the systems to a safe condition. I conduct inspection tours to check the operating conditions of mechanical and electrical equipment and gauges. I assist higher graded employees in performing work involved in operating and maintaining boilers, chillers, and auxiliaries. My experience is not reflected in the statements shown above. 4 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of responsibility maintaining building systems. Answer to this question is required I have assisted with plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R maintenance under direct supervision from others. I have maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing plumbing, pipefitting, electrical, and HVAC-R work. None of the above. 5 Which piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Landscape irrigation piping Fire hydrant and mains Back flow drains and valves Ornamental water features and fountains Reflecting pools Storm drains Sump pumps Sewage ejector pumps None of the above 6 Have you tested systems and equipment for proper circulation, flow, pressure, and leak-free joints? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which piping systems have you repaired and installed independently or with minimal supervision. Answer to this question is required Domestic water distribution systems Sewage systems Steam generation systems Tempered water systems Hydronic heating systems Fire sprinkler systems Drain, waste, and vent systems Irrigation systems Fountain display systems None of the above 8 Do you have experience performing HVAC-R duties with minimal supervision? Such experience includes the installation, repair, and troubleshooting of commercial and industrial systems that provide air conditioning such as heating, cooling, humidifying, de-humidifying, cleaning, filtering, and circulating air. Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have journey level experience in commercial heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC)? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Which activities have you performed related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I have interpreted DDC system readings. I have changed temperatures using a DDC system. I have programmed a DDC system. I have replaced DDC control devices. I have calibrated DDC measurement devices such as temperature and humidity sensors. None of the above. 11 Which instruments or gauges have you used to determine whether building system values were in an acceptable range? Answer to this question is required Pressure gauges Manometers Refrigerator gauges Refrigerator thermostats Sling Psychrometers Humidity meters Multimeters Ultrasonic detectors Thermal imaging devices Infrared thermometers Magnehelic gauges TK-9 Backflow prevention test kit Pneumatic thermostat Continuity testers Capacitance testers None of the above 12 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior worker or supervisor to resolve pipefitting problems. I have followed scripted procedures (e.g., SOPs) to resolve pipefitting problems. I have interpreted documentation (e.g., handbooks) or relied on my previous experience to resolve pipefitting problems. I have created new procedures / documentation for troubleshooting pipefitting issues. I do not have experience troubleshooting pipefitting problems. 13 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to backflow devices? Answer to this question is required I understand how backflow devices function but do not have hands-on experience with them. I assisted more senior workers with installing backflow devices. I installed backflow devices and tested the assembly. None of the above. 14 Which layout tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout piping Determining what goes in the line(s) Running supply line Determining when to put a union valve in Determining the proper reducer to put in Soldering pipe connections Repairing pipes with leaks in them Changing broken control valves None of the above 15 Which tools have you used to maintain or install piping systems for building heating and cooling systems? Answer to this question is required Flaring tool Pipe threader Fish tape Tubing cutters Victaulic groover Pipe bender/Electric Metallic Tubing (EMT) bender Pipe wrench Metal inert gas (MIG)/Tungsten inert gas (TIG) welders Plasma cutter Tap and die set None of the above 16 Have you researched technical information or schematics to determine how to repair existing building equipment or mechanical systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 17 Which mechanical reference materials have you independently read and used to troubleshoot/repair building systems? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Building automation logic None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.