Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in the following areas:&nbsp; Implementing policies &amp; procedures related to an emergency management related guidance and standards large scale organizations or government agencies;&nbsp; and Evaluating and analyzing program procedures for effectiveness and recommending improvements. 2 Select the responses that best describe your experience related to short and long range emergency preparedness communications and planning efforts. Answer to this question is required Serves as a project manager or advisor developing projects or programs related to community preparedness, training, exercises, evaluations or assessments. Leads team efforts to plan training or exercises with current guidance. Develops guidance, policies, plans or procedures for effective program implementation. Leads reviews of emergency planning and preparedness issues to produce recommendations. Leads reviews of emergency planning and preparedness issues to produce reports regarding efficiency and effectiveness. Leads response team communications efforts during emergencies/crisis. None of the above. Grade: 14 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in the following areas:&nbsp; Developing and implementing policies &amp; procedures related to an emergency management related guidance and standards large scale organizations or government agencies; Developing, planning and conducting exercises for large scale organizations or agencies to ensure compliance;&nbsp; and Providing recommendations on preparedness, response, recovery and mitigation of emergency management. 2 Select the responses that best describe your experience related to short and long range emergency preparedness communications and planning efforts. Answer to this question is required Serves as a project manager or advisor developing projects or programs related to community preparedness, training, exercises, evaluations or assessments. Leads team efforts to plan training or exercises with current guidance. Develops guidance, policies, plans or procedures for effective program implementation. Leads reviews of emergency planning and preparedness issues to produce recommendations. Leads reviews of emergency planning and preparedness issues to produce reports regarding efficiency and effectiveness. Leads response team communications efforts during emergencies/crisis. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to emergency response plans. Answer to this question is required I have assisted with the development or assessment of emergency response plans. I have experience implementing emergency response plans. I have experience conducting emergency response plan training. I do not have experience related to emergency response plans. 2 What experience do you have with disaster response? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Lead a disaster response team. Participated on a disaster response team. Wrote a disaster response report. Designed projects based on a disaster response report. Designed repairs based on a disaster response report. None of the above. 3 Please describe your approach to providing programs on a schedule and managing to deadlines. Include examples of programs or projects in which you had constraints on resources and/or time, presenting challenges to meeting required dates. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Select the choice(s) that describe(s) your typical approach in providing services and/or expertise to external persons, organizations or entities. Answer to this question is required I typically respond to inquiries and requests in a timely and thorough fashion. I anticipate customer/client needs and proactively reach out to offer help or suggestions. I prepare briefings for internal management or external partners. I prepare responses to inquiries and requests for management. I prepare management responses to Federal and state elected officials. I prepare and implement trainings and educational opportunities for internal and external persons, organizations or entities. None of the above. 5 Please describe your experience working with internal and external stakeholders/clients with competing motivations or priorities. What strategies, skills and/or tactics did you use to allow your programs or projects to move forward? Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Select all responses that describe your experience representing the interests of a program or function under your direct responsibility. Answer to this question is required Maintained collaborative relationships with personnel in peer or senior positions in other organizations, departments, or agencies. Led projects that crossed organizational or agency boundaries. Served as a team member on projects that cross organizational or agency boundaries. Represented the organization at inter-agency meetings. Maintained relationships with various federal, state, and/or local stakeholders. None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience applying legislation, policies, directives, regulations, and operating procedures to emergency management tasks? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 8 Choose the statement that best describes your experience managing an emergency preparedness program for a large organization. This includes developing the program, educating others about the program, making adjustments to policies and procedures as necessary, and ensuring compliance with federal regulations. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Select the responses pertaining to your problem-solving experience. Answer to this question is required Present, discuss and/or defend my findings with others prior to reaching a conclusion. Develop, prioritize, and recommend alternate solutions or courses of actions. Initiate and communicate pros and cons or solutions or courses of action. Brief analytical information to senior management officials. None of the above. 10 Have you managed contracts or been a Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Select the communication activities you have regularly performed for your organization. Answer to this question is required Spoke as a Subject Matter Expert at conferences, meetings, and working groups. Demonstrated technical writing proficiency related to emergency management programs and initiatives. Reviewed and edited technical materials,ensuring consistency with national and organizational policies, strategies, and related initiatives. Accurately articulated policies and explain technical aspects of programs. None of the above. 12 Please describe your experience with briefing senior government officials. Discuss both your personal experience, as well as your experience preparing leadership with written and oral materials for presentation to outside groups. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.