Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-08 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Lieutenant communicates on a regular and recurring basis with individuals from complex backgrounds to include staff and inmates. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented information to new employees; and/or I have provided Admission and Orientation training to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have instructed a class using established curriculum or lesson plans; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered; and/or I have participated in meetings and conferences in which policies are formulated, decisions rendered, budgetary matters discussed, and plans are made for administrative operations. I have briefed Executive Staff on institution policies, procedures/programs; and/or I have provided training to management officials; and/or I have provided guidance to staff regarding implementation of new policies/procedures. I have interviewed staff and inmates while investigating incident reports; and/or I have directed inmates in their living or work areas; and/or I have presented training during Introduction to Correctional Techniques/Annual Training. None of the above. 5 The Lieutenant reviews and prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, etc., on highly sensitive/technical matters.&nbsp; He/she will provide technical guidance and expertise through various written directives. He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared written documents such as work orders, incident reports, and purchase requests; and/or I have prepared internal memoranda that described uncomplicated incidents; and/or I have written a supporting memo to an incident report. I have written and submitted nominations to the Incentive Awards Committee; and/or I have prepared the results of a written investigation that was used in a court case or as findings by the Disciplinary Hearing Officer; and/or I have prepared responses to Administrative Remedies; and/or I have developed position descriptions. I have provided comments and updates to institutional supplements and post orders; and/or I have written responses to inquiries concerning institutional security and operations; and/or I have researched and responded to congressional correspondence/inquiries; and/or I have completed in-depth investigative reports; and/or I have prepared written summaries of emergency situations (i.e., on-going investigation) for local executive staff. None of the above. 6 The Lieutenant must remain calm and act quickly in emergency/critical circumstances in order to prevent or deescalate situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ordered a lockdown after inmates became disruptive during a work stoppage; and/or I have guided efforts to apprehend an escapee by ordering an emergency count, manning of escape posts, and dispatching officers; and/or I have debriefed staff after a serious situation; and/or I have led a mock exercise/scenario (i.e., hostage situation, natural disaster, work strike). I have activated a command center, hostage negotiation, or tactical operations center (i.e., natural disaster, hostage situation, etc., ); and/or I have developed Memorandums of Understanding with local law enforcement and coordinated mock exercises (i.e., fire, emergency medical services, bomb squad, etc.,); and/or I have implemented new emergency management procedures received from the national level; and/or I have coordinated crisis management drill with various departments. I have ordered institutional inmate recall after emergency situation was under control; and/or I have ordered modified movement schedule of institution; and/or I have assisted with a mock exercise/scenario (i.e., hostage situation, natural disaster, work strike). None of the above. 7 The Lieutenant must be able to make sound decisions quickly in emergency situations and lead in deescalating and preventing tense/hostile situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have sounded the alarm and took corrective action to contain a small fire; and/or I have intervened to prevent a fight between inmates; and/or I have coordinated efforts to move a critically injured inmate from a housing unit to an ambulance. I have assisted in restraining a combative inmate who was having a medical emergency; and/or I have used proper procedures and called for assistance in stopping a fight between two inmates; and/or I have followed established guidelines during a fire drill. I have participated on a Riot Control Squad to control a group of inmates; and/or I have used force to prevent an escape or to prevent the loss of life; and/or I have participated in an escape hunt to capture escapees; and/or I have deployed munitions during a calculated/immediate use of force. None of the above. 8 The Lieutenant must be able to assign responsibility and delegate authority to subordinates in order to accomplish assigned tasks.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have sought out by peers for advice/guidance on work related issues; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers; and/or I have reorganized staff responsibilities to enhance operations and efficiency; and/or I have monitored and counseled staff, as needed, prior to significant problems emerging; and/or I have prioritized workflow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated the due dates for projects. I have provided feedback on daily office operations or specific project/assignment; and/or I have reviewed work of others for accuracy prior to final draft submission; and/or I have provided assistance to subordinates in resolving problems; and/or I have directed teams in the gathering of evidence after major altercation/disturbance; and/or I have directed an emergency response to secure a housing unit; and/or I have directed the emergency medical evacuation of inmates during a crisis. I have given informal training/instructions to staff; and/or I have guided staff during lockdown for mass shakedowns and meal delivery; and/or I have organized mass inmate interviews. None of the above. 9 The Lieutenant must have extensive knowledge of the organization, operations, policies, and procedures for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He/she advises management and subordinates on technical and professional aspects of correctional services and must present both critical and routine expertise.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in the escort of inmates outside the institution; and/or I have maintained documentation of segregation reviews; and/or I have reviewed inspection documentation for compliance and ensured proper follow-up; and/or I have conducted internal audit of the Lock Shop. I have answered general program areas questions received; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with department/bureau policy; and/or I have discussed routine procedure with newly detailed inmates. I have developed tool control procedures for an institution; and/or I have assisted in performing an internal security audit; and/or I have managed daily roster covering areas (i.e., sick leave, annual leave, and training); and/or I have participated in operational/program reviews and prepared findings for Reviewer-in-Charge; and/or I have conducted routine training during Annual Training or Institution Familiarization; and/or I have instructed staff in Disturbance Control. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).