Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Facilities Services Worker under normal supervision as described in the announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have a valid state or District of Columbia driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This position requires physical exertion such as long periods of standing, walking, bending, stooping, reaching, crawling; and lifting and carrying heavy objects of 50 pounds or less. I am able to satisfy the physical requirements of this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes your experience organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of contractors in support of maintenance and/or custodial operations? Answer to this question is required I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades and custodial operations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades and custodial operations but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades and custodial operations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades and custodial operations. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades and custodial operations as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and /or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and administering procedures in the operation and cleaning of building and grounds? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in developing and administering procedures in the operation and cleaning of buildings and grounds. I have had education or training in developing and administering procedures in the operation and cleaning of buildings and grounds, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and administered procedures in the operation and cleaning of building and grounds on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or manager. I have developed and administered procedures in the operation and cleaning of buildings and grounds as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or manager. I have developed and administered procedures in the operation and cleaning of buildings and grounds as a central or major of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following statements best characterize your experience in both leading and/or supervising work teams? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in building services and operations, but have not yet performed this task on the job of organizing and coordinating the efforts of skilled building services workers, custodians, and laborers. I have organized and coordinated the efforts of skilled building services workers, custodians, and laborers as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or manager. I have not had experience, education, or training in organizing and coordinating the efforts of skilled building services workers, custodians, and laborers. I have organized and coordinated the efforts of skilled building service workers, custodians, and laborers as a central or major part of my work; and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have led a work team or group in building services and operations, and I have coordinated the efforts of skilled building services workers, custodians, and laborers on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or manager. 7 Which of the following types of mobile equipment do you have experience operating? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Exterior scrubber Interior scrubber Exterior sweeper Fork lift Scissor lift Trucks NTW 5,000 lbs Cushman None of the above 8 Which of the following types of operator-level maintenance equipment and equipment inspections procedures have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Brush height controls Fan controls Electrical system operation Electrical oil pressure Noting gauges and warning lights Taking appropriate action based on unusual high or low monitor engine Filter shaker control None of the above 9 Which of the following task(s) have you performed working in a warehouse-type environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Unloading/loading trucks vehicles Monitoring deliveries Logging and tracking deliveries Operating and maintaining equipment Cleaning and maintaining equipment Operating hydraulic lift Operating fork lift Operating power jack Stacking heavy and large boxes/cartons Utilizing equipment to unload items less than 5,000lbs Maintaining and storing hazardous material I have not done any of the above tasks 10 Which of the following responses best describes your experience reading and interpreting instructions? Answer to this question is required I read and interpret instructions, specifications, and directions. I carry out instructions which involve decisions based on pre-established guidelines. I carry out instructions to perform simple tasks that require several steps. I ask clarifying questions when instructions or directions are unclear. I can follow written directions given by a supervisor or senior management on work procedures or processes. I can complete and understand routine paperwork in order to carry through work assignments such as completing or verifying standard or inventory forms legibly. None of the above. 11 Do you utilize work orders, floor plans, and other written documentation in performing work for special events support? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following methods have you used to receive instructions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Emails Work orders/tickets Emergency phone requests Scheduled routine assignment Supervisor requests/assignments None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes the number of moving violations you have received within the last two years? Answer to this question is required 0 1 2 More than 2 14 Which of the following statements describe your experience using and maintaining motor vehicle equipment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have operated a light duty motor vehicle (car and trucks). I have operated a litter vacuum. I have operated a gas or liquid propane-powered, self propelled ride-on. I have operated mobile snow removal equipment (tracker, snow plow, etc). I have operated a forklift. None of the above 15 Which of the following statements describes your experience using and maintaining non-motor vehicle equipment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have operated a vacuum Billy Goat. I have operated dollies. I have operated hand trucks. I have operated electric and manual power jacks. I have operated grounds equipment (shovels, back pack blower, pressure washer, etc). I have operated non-motor snow removal equipment (shovel, snow thrower, salt spreader, etc). None of the above 16 Which of the following statements describes your knowledge, training and experience in safety practices? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Blood-borne Pathogens Standards Hazardous Waste Disposal Proper Cleaning Methods Chemical Handling Procedures and Equipment Operation and Maintenance Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) None of the above 17 Which of the following types of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have you used? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Gloves Ear plugs Safety glasses/goggles Safety shoes Hard hats Aprons Fall protection equipment (e.g., harness) None of the above 18 Which of the following statements best describes your experience working as a member of a team? Answer to this question is required I have worked with other workers in the same line of work to get a job done. I have led a group of employees. I have worked with employees in other trades to get a job done. I have cooperated with others when hazards exist and an error may cause injury none of the above 19 Which of the following best describes your experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have provided customer service to visitors or other persons as a regular part of my job. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I am able to answer general questions. I am able to give simple informative directions. I do not have experience providing customer service. 20 Do you have the ability to meet or exceed timeline(s) set by a supervisor and/or manager? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) Job fair or informational session Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) Community or professional organization Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.