Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform program management for a data management program.** Planned, organized and oversaw the management of work activities and schedules associated with the implementation of enhancements to existing IT systems and new systems to administer a data management program.&nbsp; Performed the following: 1) conceiving/planning a strategy or project, 2) implementing project/strategy, 3) determining actions necessary to resolve issues or problems with implementation, 4) ensuring data policies and practices support and promote interoperability with industries, 5) ensuring data policies and practices enable advanced business analytics, 6) ensuring data policies and practices improve data quality, access and usage, and 7) devising and applying innovative criteria to evaluate the progress and cost effectiveness of program plans, goals and objectives. Answer to this question is required In a professional capacity, performed program management work including ALL of the above. In a professional capacity, performed SIX (6) of the above, including 1) and 2). In a professional capacity, performed FIVE (5) of the above, including 1) and 2). None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of industry best practices and strategies for leveraging data to drive strategic and tactical business decisions.** Demonstrate knowledge of industry best practices and strategies for leveraging data insights to help drive strategic and tactical business decisions and to optimize performance through data analytics. Answer to this question is required Served as a subject matter expert on best practices and strategies for leveraging data insights that help drive strategic and tactical business decisions and optimize performance through data analytics. Had primary responsibility for supporting a data-driven, decision making culture. Had knowledge of an organization’s program goals and accomplishments and knowledge of relationships with other programs and key administrative support functions. Served as a subject matter expert on best practices and strategies for leveraging data insights that help drive strategic and tactical business decisions and optimize performance through data analytics. Had responsibility for supporting a data-driven, decision making culture. Served as a subject matter expert on best practices and strategies for leveraging data insights that help drive strategic and tactical business decisions and optimize performance through data analytics. Assisted in supporting a data-driven, decision making culture. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to establish business needs and requirements necessary to administer a data management program. Established business needs and requirements necessary to administer a data management program. Answer to this question is required Independently established the business needs and requirements necessary to administer a data management program. Identified the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) to ensure successful strategic planning for a data management program. Presented recommendations for improvements which were adopted by the organization and resulted in the maximization of returns on data assets. As part of a team, established the business needs and requirements necessary to administer a data management program. Identified the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) to ensure successful strategic planning for a data management program. Presented recommendations for improvements which were adopted by the organization and resulted in the maximization of returns on data assets. Established the business needs and requirements necessary to administer a data management program. Identified the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) to ensure successful strategic planning for a data management program. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to serve as a liaison for an organization and develop and maintain effective working relationships. Served as a liaison for an organization and developed and maintained effective working relationships to accomplish program objectives. In addition, work was reviewed by management. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained effective working relationships with a wide variety of individuals within and outside the organization with different roles and responsibilities on large, complex projects related to program management and analysis. Established relationships with heads of an agency or organization several managerial levels removed. Served as a liaison with other major national information services and negotiated, influenced, and persuaded others with differing views. Lead, planned, and conducted meetings, briefings and other activities to further the goals of the organization. Proposed recommendations and resolved problems and issues which directly affected the program goals and objectives. Developed and maintained effective working relationships with a wide variety of individuals within and outside the organization with different roles and responsibilities on large, complex projects related to program management and analysis. Served as a liaison for an organization and negotiated, influenced, and persuaded others with differing views. Led, planned, and conducted meetings, briefings and other activities to further the goals of the organization. Worked with management to propose recommendations and resolved issues which affected program goals and objectives. Developed and maintained effective working relationships with a wide variety of individuals within and outside the organization with different roles and responsibilities on large, complex projects related to program management and analysis. Served as a liaison for an organization and negotiated, influenced, and persuaded others with differing views. Planned and conducted meetings, briefings and other activities to further the goals of the organization. Shared with management proposed program recommendations and solutions for issues which affected program goals and objectives. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to perform program analyst work using computer systems and software applications. Worked with computer systems and software applications including: 1) Microsoft Office Suite, 2) relational databases (e.g. SQL Server, Oracle), 3) business intelligence tools (e.g., Olik, Tableau), 4) data modeling tools (e.g., Erwin, Toad), 5) data catalog tools, and 6) data integration tools. Answer to this question is required Has experience using the above technologies to conduct program analyst work, including utilizing ALL of the above to independently research, analyze and provide technical advice and aid on issues or problems impacting the operations of an organization. Has experience using the above technologies to conduct program analyst work, including utilizing ALL of the above to research, analyze and provide technical advice and aid on issues or problems impacting the operations of an organization with minimal supervision or assistance. Has experience using the above technologies to conduct program analyst work, including utilizing ALL of the above to research, analyze and provide technical advice and aid on issues or problems impacting the operations of an organization. Work was typically done as part of a team with minimal supervision. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced written products related to program management and analysis including: 1) briefings and presentations, 2) strategic, technical or operational planning documents, 3) analytical reports, 4) policies and/or standard operating procedures, 5) evaluative studies such as comprehensive management studies, 6) operational statistics, 7) program and project management documents, and 8) formal and informal correspondence. Answer to this question is required Independently produced ALL of the above documents. Created tables and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Prepared documents and analysis of complex information from multiple sources utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Independently produced SEVEN (7) of the above documents. Created tables and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Prepared documents and analysis of complex information from multiple sources utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Independently produced SIX (6) of the above documents. Created tables and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Prepared documents and analysis of complex information from multiple sources utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. None of the above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).