Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: NA No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your academic classification. Answer to this question is required I have completed my freshman year. I have completed my sophomore year. I have completed my junior year. I have completed my senior year. I am a college graduate. I am in graduate school. I am in law school. None of the above. 2 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have dealt with customers as a part of my non-academic experience on complex issues, and provided resolution to difficult problems. I have dealt with customers as a part of my non-academic experience on issues which were not complex, but still presented difficult problems to solve. I have dealt with customers as a part of my non-academic experience on routine issues involving solving simple problems on a repetitive basis. My customer service experience is limited to providing solutions within my academic environment. I have not had to provide customer service. 3 Which of the following best characterizes your highest level of experience resolving complex problems for an administrative issue? Answer to this question is required I have identified a problem. I have identified a problem and its root cause. I have identified a problem, its root cause, and developed a solution. I have identified a problem, its root cause, and developed and implemented a solution that anticipated and avoided potential conflicts. None of the above. 4 Which duties have you performed in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Answering telephones Creating documents on a word processor Maintaining a filing system Creating a filing system Creating a database Maintaining an existing database Receiving/distributing mail Retrieving information from various sources Reviewing documents and forms for accuracy Assisting customers None of the above 5 Which response best reflects your teamwork experience? Answer to this question is required I have some experience working in a team in a professional environment. I have extensive experience working in a team in a professional environment. I have some experience working in a team of students while in school. I have extensive experience working in a team of students while in school. None of the above. 6 How did you learn about this DC Courts job opportunity? Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Courts website USAJobs COSCAHR Listserve/NCSC Connected website Friend or Relative employed by the District of Columbia Courts Friend or Relative Professional Organization College/University Career Center Career/Job Fair, Conference, or Convention DC Courts Facebook page LinkedIn Other View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).