Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The CPU HRS communicates on a regular basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/She must possess comprehensive oral communication skills to interact, negotiate, and/or persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted agency headquarters for guidance on HR policies and procedures; and/or I have briefed management on personnel selections; and/or I have explained job qualifications to an applicant; and/or I have explained keying procedures to another employee. I have answered general inquiries on specific job application procedures; and/or I have explained the interview process to an applicant; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule an interview; and/or I have vouchered applicants for employment. I have conducted pre-employment interviews; and/or I have provided guidance to management on leave policies, benefits, and pay setting; and/or I have provided training to timekeepers. None of the above 3 The CPU HRS must communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing effectively while using established rules and guidelines. They must prepare a variety of correspondence and personnel documents. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared retirement and award letters for employees; and/or I have recorded meeting minutes from a staff meeting; and/or I have prepared requests for security clearances. I have prepared Thrift Savings Plan and Health Benefits open season flyers; and/or I have written select and non-select letters to applicants; and/or I have responded to employment verification letters; and/or I have completed personnel forms. I have written employee notifications concerning basic benefits; and/or I have prepared memorandums or letters for supervisors or Executive Staff signatures; and/or I have written a vacancy announcement; and/or I have prepared justifications for above the minimum and/or recruitment bonus requests. None of the above 4 The CPU HRS must interpret and apply a wide variety of OPM and agency regulations, as well as other instructional/regulatory materials. They must ensure personnel and payroll data are properly processed. They will also advise and respond to routine questions concerning pay. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to management on special hiring programs; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding OPM, DOJ, and agency regulations; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding benefits programs; and/or I have calculated an extensive back-pay entitlement for an employee. I have provided pay and leave information to employees; and/or I have provided guidance on reviewing leave and earning statements; and/or I have determined general eligibility of an employee for a benefit, such as a change to health coverage outside of an open season period. I have reviewed records and practices to ensure policy compliance; and/or I have entered vacancy announcements on OPM`s website according to instructions; and/or I have explained hiring authorities to management; and/or I have explained a service computation date calculation to an employee. None of the above 5 The CPU HRS must have a comprehensive knowledge of payroll regulations pertaining to time and attendance, backpay, and military buyback. He/She must have knowledge of the National Finance Center`s automated personnel/payroll system and the NFC time and attendance processing procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have changed an incorrect Health Benefit code outside of an open season; and/or I have knowledge of premium pay entitlements; and/or I have processed a garnishment; and/or I have keyed restored leave for an employee; and/or I have processed appropriate action for an employee transferring from another agency; and/or I have processed a preliminary disability retirement package and subsequent disability retirement. I have keyed time and attendance records for employees; and/or I have uploaded payroll information to NFC; and/or I have completed time and attendance audits; and/or I have processed an accession; and/or I have processed a FEGLI document. I have knowledge of extensive overtime regulations; and/or I have presented training on payroll issues to HR staff; and/or I have processed a HCUP package to correct an accession. None of the above Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).