Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Financial Specialists must respond to inquiries, provide interpretations, and present financial reports in a clear, concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a newsletter article about financial management; and/or I have prepared minutes of budget meetings; and/or I have written letters to vendors concerning past due debts to the government; and/or I have investigated and prepared correspondence on Congressionals and other inquiries assigned to Financial Management. I have revised memorandums and charts for internal use; and/or I have responded to email request for pay arrangements instructed by the supervisor; and/or I have updated the calendar to include scheduled meetings, and due dates for financial projects and reports; and/or I have prepared a weekly status report for internal use. I have completed standard cost forms and schedules; and/or I have summarized information and quantitative data for use within the office; and/or I have completed work orders; and/or I have prepared a response to an audit report for supervisor review. None of the above. 5 Financial Specialists must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts to maintain day-to-day operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted regulations and provided technical advice to staff and members of the community; and/or I have answered complex questions relating to Financial Management; and/or I have briefed supervisor on status of workload; and/or I have provided training and technical financial assistance to staff through communication using training sessions and one-on-one sessions; and/or I have served on various committees and task forces, which involved major programs and projects within Financial Management. I have responded to inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have contacted staff concerning travel or salary advances; and/or I have led a discussion in a department/staff meeting; and/or I have discussed meeting agendas; and/or I have consolidated submissions or information at a briefing. I have provided resolutions to routine inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have discussed issues with staff to complete routine assignments; and/or I have provided basic travel processing training to administrative support staff. None of the above. 6 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of financial principles in order to determine the accuracy of financial information submitted by subordinates and cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with reconciling a subsidiary account to general ledger account; and/or I have developed a spreadsheet to function in support of a journal entry/general ledger account; and/or I have performed a cash reconciliation. I have reviewed financial reports to determine if they were balanced; and/or I have resolved various issues pertaining to financial management with assistance from the supervisor; and/or I have assisted in compiling the Budget Requirements Report; and/or I have received incoming negotiable instruments and prepared them for deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank, then entered the appropriate accounting entries in the Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) or equivalent system to account for incoming funds. I have reviewed vendor payment for accuracy; and/or I have prepared travel settlement vouchers; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have reviewed obligations for accuracy. None of the above. 7 Financial Specialists must analyze, draw conclusions, and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed general ledger accounts for proper balances; and/or I have prepared monthly proof checks; and/or I have submitted reclassification of the Governmental Wide Accounting (GWA) account statement. I have determined that the general ledger accounts were balanced; and/or I have determined from reports the obligations for each cost center; and/or I have analyzed various financial reports with assistance from the supervisor; and/or I have analyzed obligation documents to determine validity of payment vouchers and proper classification of the obligations. I have prepared responses to audit findings; and/or I have classified financial transactions according to the appropriate general ledger account; and/or I have assisted with submitting prior period adjustments to management (i.e., accounting entries that were identified in the current fiscal year that should have been reflected in a prior fiscal year). None of the above. 8 Financial Specialists must apply a variety of accounting and budget policies, procedures, and other guidelines in maintaining operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured annual external year-end reports were completed by established scheduled dates; and/or I have maintained accurate open accounts payable balances; and/or I have assisted with archiving reports as required by office protocols. I have reviewed non-routine travel vouchers for accuracy according to travel regulations; and/or I have assured timely processing of settlements to achieve timely and accurate financial statements; and/or I have monitored or reviewed the recording of new obligations to ensure proper classification of obligations; and/or I have monitored open obligations to ensure the validity of obligations and conducted appropriate follow up. I have reconciled and resolved general/subsidiary ledger discrepancies; and/or I have reconciled Treasury reports to ensure cash accounts were accurate; and/or I have assisted with or conducted the Fund Control reconciliation to ensure the budget was within appropriate threshold amounts; and/or I have participated as an audit team member for a program review. None of the above. 9 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems in order to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed obligation reports to assist with Fund Control or ensure cost centers are not over obligated; and/or I have reviewed personal or real property reports for accuracy; and/or I have researched how source documents for entries are recorded into the automated accounting system. I have generated a general ledger to balance property and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated monthly ending reports to prepare the monthly proof checks; and/or I have generated cost reports to balance work-in-progress accounts; and/or I have generated outstanding travel advance and account receivable reports. I have operated Fund Control programs; and/or I have conducted research using an automated accounting system; and/or I have processed payments in an automated accounting system; and/or I have provided an explanation of variance using automated accounting; and/or I have entered obligation changes to cost centers, to ensure the appropriate documentation exists for all entries. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).