Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 This series has a basic education requirement that must be met by all applicants. Which of the following best describes how you meet that requirement? Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I held an 1102 series position in the federal government at or equivalent to the same grade as this position on January 1, 2000, and am excepted from this requirement. SF-50 OR EQUIVALENT REQUIRED. I do not meet the basic education requirement as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes you experience preparing best value source selection determination of offers received in response to Request for Proposals in making federal awards? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 3 Which of the following types of administrative contract actions (prepared by Contract Specialists) have you reviewed and approved as a Contracting Officer (or higher level)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Task Orders (or Work Assignments) Invoice Reviews Contract Modifications Termination for Convenience of the Government (or Default of the Contractor) Contract Closeout Post-Award Contractor Conflict of Interest Determinations (FAR 9.5) Equitable Cost Adjustments (or Claims) None of the above 4 Do you have experience reviewing contract and purchase orders files to ensure their completeness and that the appropriate documentation are contained in the file? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following best describes your experience providing technical assistance to program staff in identifying appropriate contract mechanisms, preparing pre-award procurement documents, and post-award contract monitoring for the purpose of contract management? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 6 Which of the following describes your written communication skill in communicating programmatic goals in a diverse organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have substantial experience in preparing written reports and documentation for a diverse audience including higher management. I have experience writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda, policy guidance, operating procedures, and recommendations to staff and my supervisor. I have routinely written reports and memoranda on behalf of a committee or group of individuals which may involve explanation of policies, procedures, and/or recommendations. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and proposals. I have experience writing drafts of reports, memoranda, policy, procedures, and/or recommendations for my supervisor. I have made recommendations to my supervisor or higher management regarding changes in draft reports written by others. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a written public inquiry, specialized audience, or wider distribution. I have written papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by my supervisor and/or higher management. I have prepared clear and concise correspondence for internal inquiries. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience presenting contract/procurement related issues orally and in writing to non-procurement audiences? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 8 Which of the following contracting actions do you have experience performing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Performed advanced acquisition planning and strategy in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 7 or equivalent Assemble, write, and issue solicitations Respond to offerors’ questions Evaluate proposals Conduct cost and price analysis Conduct past performance evaluations of offerors Perform source selection Negotiate (discussions or clarifications) Award contracts Resolve protests Debrief unsuccessful offerors Conduct post- award contract orientation for contractor and Contracting Officer Representative (COR) Prepare recommendations on subcontract consent for work Administer contracts in accordance with FAR Part 42 or equivalent Provide Government furnished Property in accordance with FAR Part 45 or equivalent Exercise an option (term or quality) in accordance with FAR Part 17 or equivalent Notate contracts Terminate for convenience or default in accordance with FAR Part 49 or equivalent Resolve claims Closeout contracts Develop procurement policy Handle confidential business information Manage conflict of interest restrictions and determinations Prepare management plans for Advisory and Assistance Services Conduct oral presentations None of the above 9 Do you have experience in applying federal acquisition regulations, policies, and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.