Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-07 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-08 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-08 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. You do not need to compete for this job if you are a GL/GS-08 or higher or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08.&nbsp; You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. As of July 31, 2022, &nbsp;the promotion potential of all Correctional Officers (GL/GS-05/06), Seniors Officers (GL/GS-07) has been reclassified to a Senior Officer Specialist (GL/GS-08). If you are a GL/GS-0007-05, 06, 07 or 08 (Correctional Officer, Senior Officer or Senior Officer Specialist) as of July 31, 2022 , YOU DO NOT NEED TO COMPETE for this job. Please select one of the answers below in the question to follow: Yes, I am currently at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-08 level without my having to compete. NOTE : If you were previously a Correctional Officer GL/GS-0007-05/06/07 and vacated the position prior to July 31, 2022 , you would NOT meet the career ladder GL/GS-08 of this position and therefore will need to compete for the GL/GS-08. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-07 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-08 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The SIS Technician must possess the ability to tactfully and effectively communicate and interact with numerous law enforcement agencies, management officials, other agency officials, co-workers and the public. They&nbsp;are required to provide guidance to co-workers, and possess the ability to conduct or exchange investigative research and to assist in the coordination of information exchange between law enforcement and correctional communities.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered administrative or technical questions from management; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to assist supervisors in completing projects in a timely manner; and/or I have coordinated efforts with internal and external offices to complete assignments; and/or I have assisted in resolving minor complaints impacting work areas; and/or I have trained lower level subordinates and/or staff on procedures/policies. I have screened calls for staff; and/or I have assisted staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on non-technical issues; and/or I have participated in staff meetings by providing input on issues impacting the operations of the office; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the public or employees; and/or I have trained lower level subordinates in routine office procedures; and/or I have coordinated efforts with internal offices to complete assignments. I have researched issues and/or provided responses to inquiries on technical issues; and/or I have independently received calls and take appropriate action rather than forwarding caller to others for assistances; and/or I have developed and implemented a system which ensured supervisors are aware of projects/assignments prior to due date and tracked to ensure they were completed on time; and/or I have successfully coordinated efforts with internal and external offices to complete non-routine assignments; and/or I have researched and gathered information on a technical topic and advised others in a group setting or meeting; and/or I have resolved complaints/discrepancies involving work areas and another section/division/3rd party. None of the above. 5 The SIS Technician is required to compose technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects related to investigations conducted by the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings and other gatherings, as instructed; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written routine office procedures; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for others to proofread/edit. I have prepared confidential/sensitive correspondence for use by other governmental agencies; and/or I have prepared articles to be published in newsletters; and/or I have compiled, designed and prepared handouts and informational material to be used at a conference; and/or I have prepared minutes in final format for executive level meetings. I have prepared non-sensitive correspondence in conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted staff members in gathering and compiling information and preparing a congressional response; and/or I have independently prepared recurring reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature. None of the above. 6 The SIS Technician must possess the ability to analyze sensitive and non-sensitive information and make recommendations for consideration regarding investigative techniques, evidence gathering methods, and&nbsp;data collections.&nbsp;They must also possess the ability to identify problems and recommend viable solutions to situations encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed audit directives and provided recommendations to supervisor that when implemented, improved procedures and ensured policy compliance; and/or I have formulated internal review or audit procedures which improved accuracy and timeliness of required transactions and reports; and/or I have maintained accountability of evidence obtained in investigative cases which was subsequently presented for prosecution in federal court; and/or I have conducted audits on the inmate urine and alcohol programs to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed urine test results and appropriately noted/documented any apparent trends; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed telephone calling patterns of inmates and initiated corrective action when required; and/or I have participated in a Program Review or comparable external audits of SIS Investigative Office procedures. I have reviewed recurring transactions by analyzing background documents for accuracy and completeness prior to processing; and/or I have consulted appropriate automated systems manual to complete required transactions; and/or I have assisted in reviewing records and requested required documentation and/or information to complete file. I have participated in an operational review or comparable external audit by utilizing established guidelines and provided recommendations for corrective action to problem areas to team leader/Reviewer in Charge; and/or I have reviewed records for completeness of files and obtained information/data needed to complete record; and/or I have corrected errors in reports, transactions or computations by reviewing related background documentation; and/or I have located discrepancies between records, reports or transactions and notified appropriate staff member for corrective action. None of the above. 7 The SIS Technician must possess thorough understanding of advanced computerized database systems.&nbsp;They are&nbsp;required to conduct searches to retrieve a variety of information requested by the SIS/SIA.&nbsp; They are required to utilize a variety of automated programs and systems to effectively accomplish&nbsp;thier assignments.&nbsp;&nbsp;They must possess knowledge and comprehensive ability to prepare documents, reports, spreadsheets, or other forms of automated information as the position dictates.&nbsp; In addition,&nbsp;they are&nbsp;required to be proficient in common office equipment, such as typewriter, fax machine, recorder, copy machine, and scanner.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained an established database to track information required by supervisor; and/or I have developed general automated presentations; and/or I have trained other staff on a new automated process; and/or I have experienced in using current word processing applications; and/or I have utilized a typewriter or computer to create file labels; and/or I have utilized basic functions of a copy machine; and/or I have faxed routine documents. I have independently developed a database spreadsheet to track information, which was adopted for use by other offices; and/or I have developed interactive presentations using slides, graphs, pictures, and charts; and/or I have sought out by others for technical advice and guidance on the uses of a variety of word processing software; and/or I have transcribed minutes or information using a recorder; and/or I have used copy photography or evidence photography to maintain evidence; and/or I have tested, labeled, handled, packaged and submitted evidence to Federal Crime Labs in accordance with policy and procedures; and/or I have scanned documents into electronic formats; and/or I have reproduced/edited video tapes of use of force incidents or fights between inmates onto video tapes and/or compact disks; and/or I have copied mass quantities of information using color, sort and staple functions. I have retrieved information from an established database; and/or I have successfully completed a training course for a Micro soft Word Video presentations software; and/or I have prepared basic documents and/or forms using a word processing application. None of the above. 8 The SIS Technician must possess thorough understanding of agency manuals, Program Statements, and investigation methodology. They&nbsp;must possess the ability to perform investigative research within prescribed guidelines and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered general program areas questions received; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with Department of Justice/Bureau of Prisons policy; and/or I have discussed routine procedure with newly incarcerated inmate. I have responded to internal inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have utilized available resources to maintain currency of policy and procedures; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others to ensure policy requirements were adhered to. I have researched complicated issues and determined appropriate course of action; and/or I have resolved a noted discrepancy and initiated corrective action in order to comply with policy requirements; and/or I have participated in program or operational review of a specific area/department within a correctional facility; and/or I have responded to external inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have monitored vital functions in accordance with Program Review guidelines. None of the above. 9 The SIS Technician receives inventory and maintains all pieces of evidence collected throughout the institution which are involved in inmate investigative cases. Additionally, they assist in the preparation of investigative cases for presentation to the Disciplinary Hearing Officer, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and&nbsp;Assistant U.S. Attorney.&nbsp; As the Urinalysis Coordinator, they&nbsp;are responsible for ensuring all random, suspect and community urine tests are completed in compliance with governing policy.&nbsp; To effectively perform the requirements of the position, they&nbsp;must possess the ability to collect, organize and maintain a variety of sensitive, confidential materials, evidence, and information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have inventoried and maintained evidence; and/or I have maintained and accounted for files in accordance with the SIS manual; and/or I have established and maintained a tracking system for the drug testing programs; and/or I have organized case files presented to the DHO/FBI/AUSA; and/or I have overseen and handled the day to day operation of the inmate urine surveillance program to include documentation for all tests for community, random and suspect testing; and/or I have recorded all urine test results immediately upon receipt from the lab; and/or I have compiled monthly test results and reported the number of positive results in each test category; and/or I have overseen and monitored the suspect and random alcohol testing program for the inmate population. I have maintained a tracking system for the drug testing program; and/or I have maintained files and evidence in accordance with office procedures; and/or I have collected a variety of information as requested by supervisor; and/or I have presented requested information in an organized fashion. I have performed routine filing and maintenance of records; and/or I have prioritized incoming information and requested assistance when needed to complete assigned tasks; and/or I have assisted a higher level employee is collecting information and preparing documentation for presentation. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).