Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must be a current certified American Heart Association (AHA) CPR/AED Instructor. All applicants must submit a copy of their certification as proof of being a current certified CPR/AED Instructor. 2 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND I have submitted documentation which certifies that I am currently a CPR/AED Instructor. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The CPR Coordinator must communicate with various levels of management, institution departments, individual staff, and groups of students. He/She may present courses of instruction utilizing a variety of lecture techniques and tools including group discussions, role playing, practical exercises, audio/visual aids and handouts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with community-based organizations or committees tasked with recommending solutions to educational problems; and/or I have implemented new instructional programs to increase student participation; and/or I have exchanged technical data and information with various members of the agency, which included employees from the institution, region and the Central Office. I have given presentations in college; and/or I have participated in group discussions to establish consensus or a plan of action; and/or I have assisted ACA medical coordinator; and/or I have provided briefings during department staff meetings; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding a special project; and/or I have completed public speaking course in college; and/or I have worked as a teaching assistant/aide in an educational environment. I have taught classes with established lesson plans; and/or I have utilized Corel presentation or other computer software to present training; and/or I have advised/instructed clerical and administrative staff regarding interpretations/clarifications of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have made recommendations to management regarding new instructional programs; and/or I have presented new information to management and staff etc. I have facilitated large meetings and/or training; and/or I have persuaded diverse group of students to participate in volunteer programs; and/or I have performed keynote address at a graduation ceremony or conference. None of the above. 6 The CPR Program Coordinator must communicate in writing with a variety of people, including management, at all levels of the organizational hierarchy, as well as individuals outside the organization. In order to convey information effectively, he/she must be able to communicate clearly to a target audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched and developed a body of information that is utilized to train employees, modify policy and/or procedure, or influence executive level staff to implement change to national policy; and/or I have submitted a technical document or executive staff paper which impacted personnel throughout the agency/organization. I have prepared internal memorandums conveying basic/routine information; and/or I have submitted documents which upon review only needed minor editing of content and grammar; and/or I have assisted in reviewing work prepared by others for format, content and grammatical accuracy; and/or I have completed progress reports; and/or I have written incident reports; and/or I have reviewed purchase requests for technical accuracy and budget compliance. I have submitted recommendations for consideration to update instructional program statement to conform with policy changes; and/or I have drafted proposed student testing procedures; and/or I have written thesis for advanced graduate or post-graduate research. I have independently developed advanced curricula that is easy to understand and meets the needs of both entry level and seasoned employees; and/or I have prepared agency/organization reports pertaining to training initiatives; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement. I have reviewed existing documents and submitted recommended editorial changes to clarify and/or further define policy and procedure; and/or I have independently created draft program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures for higher level review and approval; and/or I have modified existing curricula/lesson plans. I have written a detailed article for a published newspaper; and/or I have written a paper for a professional or academic group; and/or I have prepared a detailed report summarizing the results of a project. None of the above. 7 The CPR Program Coordinator must have extensive knowledge of various methods of teaching and be able to use this knowledge to instruct and motivate students. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a graduate-level practicum which included the application of instructor skills in multiple areas; and/or I have developed effective presentations or lesson plans that are utilized to train or inform participants at a national level. I have monitored local CPR certifications and reported back to the AHA on the progress of each trainer on a periodic basis; and/or I have served as BOP Training Center Coordinator, including developing budget for a training program; and/or I have assisted lead instructor in providing Introduction to Correctional Techniques, Phase II or equivalent training program. I have prepared audiovisual materials; and/or I have carried out training functions such as scheduling instructors and classes; and/or I have assisted in developing an annual training plan to address the needs of a large group of employees. I have provided training at the institution/local level using multiple training/instructional methods; and/or I have modified instructional methodologies to accommodate different learning styles and adult learners; and/or I have completed the BOP's Training for Trainers course or equivalent; and/or I have completed an undergraduate, college-level instructor skills program. I have utilized BOP-Learn system in order to monitor nominations, track certification expiration and key training completion; and/or I have taught or provided educational instruction in a secondary level educational environment; and/or I have worked as a group counselor/facilitator in a correctional setting; and/or I have coached/organized recreational programs for youth groups or adults with learning disabilities. I have presented/facilitated training classes or presentations in multiple program areas to a diverse audience of line staff, supervisors and upper level managers agency-wide; and/or I have assessed, planned, developed and coordinated Instructor courses (train the trainer model). None of the above. 8 The CPR Coordinator must utilize time and resources in order to organize and manage the National CPR Certification program including the clerical and administrative functions of CPR training and certifications under the American Heart Association. He/She will be responsible for ensuring that all staff are certified in CPR and first aid. This requires skill in utilizing resources and time management skills. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and maintained logging system for all work categories in office; and/or I have reviewed work of incoming reports, Congressional correspondence, etc., to ensure completeness, accuracy, correct grammar and spelling; and/or I have maintained calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completing prior to/before due dates. I have coordinated work as a team leader; and/or I have re-evaluated priorities of projects based on shifting time lines; and/or I have established new filing systems or other data collection system and trained co-workers on the system. I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers; and/or I have organized compressed work schedule request for immediate department; and/or I have assisted co-worker with projects assigned by management in order to meet specific deadlines. I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code, or accounting code, etc.); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step. I have used judgment in determining priorities of work assignments based on knowledge of operations/functions; and/or I have established systems enabling review and tracking of various documents (i.e., sensitive controlled, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, Privacy Act, congressional correspondence, reports, etc.). I have requested training for self and co-workers based upon identifying the training needs within the department; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have requested assistance/guidance with work/project, if necessary, prior to due date. I have established reporting deadlines and coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures; and/or I have generated reports to keep abreast of on-going projects; and/or I have coordinated numerous work assignments ahead of due date. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).