Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 2 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees Inspected work site for job hazards Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Developed work improvement plans Provided feedback to employees on methods or techniques None of the above 3 Do you&nbsp;currently possess a stationary engineering license issued by the District of Columbia, Maryland, NIULPE, or other authority? Answer to this question is required Yes, I currently have a 5th class stationary engineer’s license. Yes, I currently have a 4th class stationary engineer’s license. Yes, I currently have a 3rd class stationary engineer’s license. Yes, I currently have a 2nd class stationary engineer’s license. Yes, I currently have a 1st class stationary engineer’s license. No 4 Select the statement best describes your highest level of experience&nbsp;working in an industrial facility that generated steam, chilled water, or power. Answer to this question is required I do not have related training or experience. I have training and/or experience related to the industry (such as HVAC or Building Automation Systems) but no directly related training and/or experience in industrial generation of steam, chilled water, or power. I have training but no experience directly related to industrial generation of steam, chilled water, or power. I have no formal training but do have experience directly related to industrial generation of steam, chilled water, or power. I have both formal training and direct work experience related to industrial generation of steam, chilled water, or power. 5 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience performing duties including the operation of any of the following: - Power generation equipment - Steam generation equipment - Chilled water generation equipment Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education on operating and/or maintaining equipment but have not yet performed them on the job. I have performed operations OR maintenance following detailed instructions from others. I have performed operations AND maintenance following detailed instructions from others. I have independently performed operations OR maintenance as assigned. I have independently performed operations AND maintenance as assigned. None of the above 6 Select the&nbsp;safety topics below that you have training or work experience with. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Job Hazard Analysis Confined Space Lock Out/Tag Out (LOTO) Fall Protection Hazardous Materials None of the above 7 Select the maintenance activities you have performed. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Adjusted control valves or replaced valve packing Lubricated parts (e.g., pumps, motors, valves) or replaced oil in machinery Replaced or adjusted drive belts (e.g., fan belts) Made temporary modifications or repairs to piping Changed filters (e.g., oil filters, air filters) or cleaned strainers None of the above 8 For which types of boilers have you performed start up/shut down procedures? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Gas Oil Pulverized coal Stoker coal None of the above 9 Select the written documents you have read and interpreted to perform work. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Mechanical/Electrical Drawings, Piping and Instrumentation Diagrams (P&ID), or Schematics Preventative maintenance procedures Startup/shut down checklists Manufacturer specifications, O&M Manuals None of the above 10 Select the chilled water generation equipment you have operated. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Free Cooling Heat Exchangers Centrifugal Chillers Cooling Towers Heat Absorption Chillers Thermal Storage Systems Variable Speed Pumping Systems None of the above 11 Select the statement that best describes your experience trouble shooting&nbsp;mechanical and/or electrical systems (e.g., loss of flow, equipment malfunction). Answer to this question is required I have identified when problems occurred and reported them to my supervisor. I have identified the root cause of problems occurred and reported them to my supervisor and the appropriate trade for repair. I have identified when problems occurred, and reported them to my supervisor. I was also able to identify a cause of the problem and report this information to the appropriate trade for repair. I have identified when problems occurred, determined the root cause and was able to correct the situation with little or no guidance from my supervisor. I was able to identify a potential problem prior to occurrence and independently take corrective action prior to any failure or operational problems. None of the above 12 Select the topics that you have completed training (e.g., trade school, community college, formal on the job training program). (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Chilled Water/Refrigeration Steam System/Boiler Operation HVAC Water Treatment/Chemistry Stationary Engineering None of the above 13 Select the measuring instruments you have used to monitor utility system operations. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Thermal imaging gun (Infrared Thermometer or Thermal Imager) Freon detector Gas detector Vibration monitor Borescope None of the above 14 Select the statements below that apply to your experience with water treatment. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I understand the fundamentals regarding treatment of steam, or chilled water, or condenser water systems. I have monitored metering and chemical treatment systems to ensure that they are operating within parameters. I have conducted chemical testing in a laboratory to verify that water treatment is within specified parameters. I am able to make manual adjustments to chemical treatment systems to correct an out of specification parameter. I have been responsible for offloading chemicals during delivery. None of the above 15 Do you currently possess a Universal Refrigerant Technician Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Select the&nbsp;statements below that apply to your experience with environmental programs. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked at a facility that held an air permit issued by the state or EPA. I have worked at a facility that held a waste water discharge permit issued by the local authority or EPA. I have worked at a plant that was certified in ISO 14001 for Environmental Management. I have worked at a plant that had environmental monitoring equipment such as a Continuous Emissions Monitoring System. I have worked at a plant that had pollution control systems such as a baghouse or selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems. None of the above 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.