Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to manage an enterprise-wide implementation of new approaches to software development of applications and systems.** Applied EXPERT knowledge of enterprise-level System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with expertise in application development, software integration, and/or commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), government-off-the-shelf (GOTS), open source, development tools or other productivity approaches. Also possess expertise in web development, testing, configuration management, database and development operations. Answer to this question is required Possess EXPERT knowledge of enterprise-level System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in ALL of the following: 1) application development, 2) software integration, 3) commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), 4) government-off-the-shelf (GOTS), 5) open sources, and 6) development tools or other productivity approaches; and ALL of the following areas: knowledge of 1) web development, 2) testing, 3) configuration management, 4) database and development operations is also critical. This includes systems impacting large organizations and the general public. Possess EXPERT knowledge of enterprise-level System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in THREE (3), FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the following areas: 1) application development, 2) software integration, 3) commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), 4) government-off-the-shelf (GOTS), 5) open sources, or 6) development tools or other productivity approaches; and THREE (3) of the following areas: knowledge of 1) web development, 2) testing, 3) configuration management, or 4) database and development operations is also critical. This includes systems impacting organizations of over 2,000 people. Possess EXPERT knowledge of enterprise-level System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in TWO (2) of the following: 1) application development, 2) software integration, 3) commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), 4) government-off-the-shelf (GOTS), 5) open sources, or 6) development tools or other productivity approaches; and TWO (2) of the following: knowledge of 1) web development, 2) testing, 3) configuration management, or 4) database and development operations is also critical. This includes systems impacting organizations of over 1,000 people. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of contract preparation and contractor monitoring policies and procedures.** Worked as a contract officer representative (COR), monitoring, evaluating, and overseeing IT contract activities performing the following activities: 1) coordinating contract administration activities for technical service contracts; 2) overseeing technical evaluations of work performed by contractors in the installation and/or maintenance of hardware and software products; 3) initiating revisions to meet changing program requirements; 4) drafting statements of work; 5) collaborating with vendors and end users to ensure contract requirements are met and activities are performed in compliance with the terms of the contract; and 6) reviewing the work product of contract personnel, including accepting, amending or rejecting their work. Answer to this question is required Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing IT contract activities, performing ALL of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing IT contract activities, performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing IT contract activities, performing THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to supervise and manage staff.** Supervised and managed a diverse staff in an information technology environment and completed the following tasks: (1) made hiring selections, (2) addressed performance and disciplinary issues, (3) clearly communicated performance expectations to employees, (4) provided advice to staff, (5) conducted periodic performance evaluations, (6) recommended training and professional development opportunities, (7) planned and assigned work, and (8) identified techniques and methods to enhance staff productivity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for an information technology organization which included 15 OR MORE people. Exercised ALL of the supervisory tasks listed above. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for an information technology organization that included 10 OR MORE people. Exercised ALL of the supervisory responsibilities listed above EXCEPT making hiring selections. Served as an OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for an information technology organization that included LESS THAN 10 people OR served as a PROJECT OR TEAM LEADER or equivalent in an information technology organization. Exercising MOST of the supervisory responsibilities listed above EXCEPT making hiring selections. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of IT principles and practices. Ability to apply knowledge of the principles, practices, and techniques of information technology, including: (1) desktop and server systems, (2) office automation systems, (3) telecommunications and networking, (4) hardware/software platforms, (5) peripherals, (6) QA/QC tools, (7) collaboration tools/platforms, (8) software/web applications, and (9) evaluation and testing. Answer to this question is required Have EXTENSIVE experience applying knowledge in ALL OF THE ABOVE technical areas. Have EXTENSIVE experience applying knowledge in SEVEN (7) to EIGHT (8) OF THE ABOVE technical areas. Have EXTENSIVE experience applying knowledge in FIVE (5) or SIX (6) OF THE ABOVE technical areas. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate orally and interact with diverse groups of people. Communicated in both formal and informal settings with co-workers and users; consulted with colleagues and project officers, and/or personnel both within and outside the agency. Answer to this question is required Served as the primary liaison for the program area, participating in oral discussions to plan, negotiate, coordinate, and consult on work efforts to resolve major operating problems in the specialty area of the position, IT Specialist. Meetings were commonly with representatives of diverse groups and organizations, managers and staff. Extensive experience influencing and motivating individuals and groups. Served as a liaison for the program area, participating in oral discussions to plan, negotiate, coordinate, and consult on work efforts and to resolve operating problems in the specialty area of the position, IT Specialist. Meetings were commonly with managers and staff. Participated in oral discussions to plan, negotiate, coordinate, and consult on work efforts and to resolve operating problems in the specialty area of the position, IT Specialist. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized and understandable written documents such as: 1) requirements documents, 2) technical work improvement plans, 3) work performance critiques, 4) feasibility studies, 5) standard operating procedures or other written instructions, 6) project documentation, 7) policies, 8) statements of work, and 9) IT security related documents. Answer to this question is required Prepared a variety of complex documents on digital library topics and issues including ALL of the above. Prepared a variety of complex documents on digital library technical topics and issues including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. Prepared a variety of documents on technical topics including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).