Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience (positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: Nine semester hours or 13.5 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant is required to have completed one or more of the following certified programs: nursing assistant, medical assistant, pharmacy technician, vocational/practical nursing, or emergency medical technician (EMT). Evidence of program completion is required. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST upload evidence of program completion, at the time of application, and clearly address requirements in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position AND I have uploaded the required documentation. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position and understand I will be found ineligible for the position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit evidence of meeting the selective factor. This documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement; HOWEVER, I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, AND I was not previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( I.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-06 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-06. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-06 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-06 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-06 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-06, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-06, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-05 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-06 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Medication Technician must be familiar with a variety of medical equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taken automated vital signs; and/or I have performed blood sugar checks; and/or I have used automated medication storage systems to retrieve medications for administration; and/or I have used prescription filling robotics to prepare medications for dispensing. I have utilized electronic medical records for recording patient information; and/or I have utilized automated office system for scheduling purposes; and/or I have managed advanced healthcare technology such as holter monitors, insulin pumps, or telehealth carts; and/or I have managed automated medication dispensing cabinets operations to include refilling and maintenance; and/or I have managed prescription filling robotic equipment to include refilling and maintenance. I have maintained and accounted for medical equipment and supplies; and/or I have requisitioned for medical and office supplies, as needed; and/or I have coordinated patient appointments and schedules. None of the above. 6 The Medication Technician must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with adults in custody, other health care providers, and employees within the facility. He/she must be able to deal with all of these individuals in order to provide the best patient care possible. The Medication Technician must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with adults in custody, other health care providers, and employees within the facility. He/she must be able to deal with all of these individuals in order to provide the best patient care possible. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have instructed patients in activities of daily living; and/or I have communicated questions regarding patient care to the appropriate medical provider for clarification; and/or I have instructed family members in how to best assist with patients care and activities; and/or I have conveyed basic non-technical written information in logs/reports/memos. I have provided accurate reports of patient condition or changes in conditions to nursing staff or other health care providers; and/or I have accurately related patient questions to the appropriate healthcare provider; and/or I have reinforced patient teaching/instruction. I have performed in-service programs and provided on-the-job training for other medical nursing assistant/inmate workers; and/or I have provided clear, concise written and oral reports concerning pertinent patient information; and/or I have served as preceptor or resource person to new staff and others. None of the above. 7 The Medication Technician must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patients' physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have described situations which must be reported such as confusion, unsteady gait and changes in eating habits; and/or I have noted changes in vital signs and reported abnormal values; and/or I have recognized medical emergency (choking, difficulty breathing, falls, bleeding). I have recognized and reported a physical or psychological change in a patient’s condition requiring further assessment; and/or I have documented technical information in patient medical record; and/or I have notified supervisor of suspected drug reaction such as lethargy, rash, cough. I have worked in a healthcare or correctional facility that cares for patients with neurological and/or severe mental health disorders such as dementia, Alzheimer’s, or schizophrenia; and/or I have recognized and reported to superiors any behaviors/actions which might indicate a threat to security or the safety of others; and/or I have worked in situations of verbal abuse, combative behavior, assaults, or other forms of aggression. None of the above. 8 The Medication Technician has experience in safety and infection control policies and procedures which are required for work in any health care environment including correctional facilities. Often medication may have to be administered in various types of isolation and for inmates with infectious diseases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have noted and reported medication errors; and/or I have followed/practiced standard precautions; and/or I have followed policies regarding bio-spills and exposures; and/or I have operated sterilizer equipment. I am developed awareness of principles of universal precautions; and/or I have disinfected/sterilized medical equipment; and/or I have properly disposed of contaminated needles/syringes in bio-hazard waste. I have participated in medication error root cause analyses; and/or I have conducted controlled substance audits and inventories; and/or I have developed knowledge of medical accreditation patient safety guidelines; and/or I have administered medications to patients in respiratory isolation or reverse isolation; and/or I have monitored inmate workers in the area to ensure their compliance with safety and infection control. None of the above. 9 The Medication Technician administers medication to inmates in various locations, including the Health Services Unit, Special Housing Units, and other areas in the institution. He/she must also be familiar with reactions to medications and must be aware of signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patient&rsquo;s physical and/or emotional status as a result of taking certain medications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have administered medication to patients by the following routes: oral, sublingual, buccal, eye, ear, nasal, rectal, topical, gastro tube; and/or I have metered hand held inhalants; and/or I have assisted healthcare providers with exams or treatments; and/or I have prepared and administered parenteral medications to include insulin and monitoring side effects; and/or I have prepared and administered vaccinations; and/or I have prepared, administered, and accurately documented controlled substance medication administration. I am consulted with healthcare provider for clarification and accuracy, should questions regarding medication arise; and/or I have evaluated patient’s request for as-needed drugs and documented use; and/or I have prepared oral or parenteral medications according to patient safety standards; and/or I have checked pulse, blood pressure, or blood glucose as indicated prior to administering certain medications. I have administered medications in the following manner: rectal, oral, topical; and/or I have administered medications using unit dose or automated medication storage systems; and/or I have distributed prescriptions to patients. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).