Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions for individuals with serious mental illness.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a formal treatment unit. He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a clinical treatment program for offenders with mental illness on supervision in the community; and/or I have offered skills training on an inpatient unit for offenders with chronic mental illness; and/or I have administered a cognitive behavioral skills training for offenders with mental illness in a correctional facility; and/or I have oversaw an interdisciplinary treatment team, including health services staff, for offenders with mental illness. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically clients with mental illness in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to low function in offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided mental health care for patients with serious mental illness residing on an inpatient psychiatric unit. I have co-facilitated a psycho-educational group for mentally ill clients; and/or I have provided clinical case management services to mentally ill clients; and/or I have completed a practicum placement or internship rotation at a site which focused on the treatment of seriously mentally ill clients. None of the above. 6 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and evidenced-based treatment protocols. He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling offenders with serious mental illness. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with services within a treatment program with mentally ill clients; and/or I have as an intern, completed a rotation on an inpatient psychiatric unit which included individual/group therapy experience; and/or I have maintained a psychotherapy caseload which included seriously mentally ill clients. I have facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital. I have as a practicum student, provided mental health counseling; and/or I have co facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, provided individual and group psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital during a clinical practicum. None of the above. 7 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. He/she must have assessment expertise specific to mental illnesses. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and the preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests and passed this information on to another psychologist who interpreted results, integrated data, and written the report. I have under supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, as a practicum student or intern, assisted in administering at least two of the following psychological tests: PAI, MCMI, MMPI, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS; and/or I have conducted mental status interviews of new admissions to a mental health facility; and/or I have assisted in the collection of psycho-social history information for mentally ill clients. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests to look at one dimension of a person’s psychological composition and written a report about findings. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have responded to a medical emergency and offered assistance; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center providing crisis counseling; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have used de-escalation skills to prevent a crisis situation from escalating. I have followed a superior’s commands as part of a response team following a natural disaster; and/or I have used confrontation avoidance techniques as part of a response team; and/or I have co mediated a conflict. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures. In addition, he/she must have thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the treatment of offenders with mental illness. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have regularly read journal articles related to the treatment of mental illness; and/or I have routinely completed continuing education workshops and seminars related to mental illness; and/or I have thoroughly reviewed the major textbooks in the field of intellectual disabilities. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare of a treatment protocol for offenders with mental illness; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive offender; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions for individuals with serious mental illness. In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a formal treatment unit. He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted and administered the delivery of a skills based treatment program for offenders with mental illness; and/or I have coordinated care on an inpatient unit for offenders with mental illness in a correctional institution overseeing mental health care; and/or I have developed and delivered a skills based treatment program for chronically mentally ill patients in a forensic psychiatric hospital; and/or I have advised an institution’s psychiatric clinic by assisting a psychiatrist with mental health rounds/treatment. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically clients with mental illness in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to low function in offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided mental health care for patients with serious mental illness residing on an inpatient psychiatric unit. I have provided a clinical treatment program for offenders with mental illness on supervision in the community; and/or I have offered skills training on an inpatient unit for offenders with chronic mental illness; and/or I have administered a cognitive behavioral skills training for offenders with mental illness in a correctional facility; and/or I have oversaw an interdisciplinary treatment team, including health services staff, for offenders with mental illness. None of the above. 6 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and evidenced-based treatment protocols. He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling offenders with serious mental illness. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital. I have provided mental health care in a day treatment facility for patients with chronic mental illness; and/or I have developed a residential treatment program for offenders with mental illness in a correctional environment; and/or I have provided individual and group psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a state psychiatric hospital. I have as a practicum student, provided mental health counseling; and/or I have co facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, provided individual and group psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital during a clinical practicum. None of the above. 7 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer, and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. He/she must have assessment expertise specific to mental illnesses. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and the preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests and passed this information on to another psychologist who interpreted results, integrated data, and written the report. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests to look at one dimension of a person’s psychological composition and written a report about findings. I have administered and interpreted at least three of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have supervised and administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of clients with mental illness. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have responded to a medical emergency and offered assistance; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center providing crisis counseling; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have used de-escalation skills to prevent a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures. In addition, he/she must have thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the treatment of offenders with mental illness. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare of a treatment protocol for offenders with mental illness; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive offender; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. I have designed a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and implemented a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).