Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in at least 5 of the following: (1) Managing in the incorporation of fire protection engineering practices in all phases of design and construction documentation and the implementation for code adherence; (2) Ensuring the incorporation of adequate fire protection and life safety requirements are in all aspects of facility management; (3) Conducting fire safety surveys of various types of buildings. (i.e.; business, child care, industrial, assembly and historic); (4) Applying numerous fire protection codes, standards, and building codes to various types of facilities. (i.e.; business, child care, industrial, assembly and historic); (5) Developing risk assessments in accordance with the Federal Fire Safety Act; (6) Reviewing drawings and specifications for building construction and renovation to ensure compliance with current standards for fire protection and life safety; and (7) Serving as a subject matter expert for providing technical advice and guidance in the field of fire protection engineering&nbsp; to upper levels of management, engineers, and other personnel. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience solving problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from peers and subordinates to resolve problems. I have sought out guidance from a senior employee or supervisor to resolve problems. I have followed documented procedures (e.g., handbook, SOPs) to resolve problems. I have interpreted documented procedures or relied on my previous experiences to resolve problems. I have created precedent-setting solutions to novel situations. None of the above. 2 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identifying relevant and important information Synthesizing data from multiple sources Discerning underlying assumptions Generating solution ideas Weighing alternative options Developing recommendations Validating support for arguments None of the above 3 Which of the following tasks have you overseen or been directly responsible for regarding the inspection, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Developed work plans for safely completing repairs or corrective actions. Identified materials for replacing failed components. Developed a means of recording and tracking deficiencies as well as scheduling repairs. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience conducting fire investigations? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted with conducting fire cause and origin investigations in accordance with NFPA 921. I have conducted fire cause and origin investigations in accordance with NFPA 921. I have assisted in investigating root causes of fire or system failures. I have investigated root causes of fire or system failures and made recommendations for corrective action to management. I have led multi-disciplinary investigation teams for root-cause failure analysis of fires or system failures. I do not have experience conducting fire or root-cause failure investigations. 5 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in providing oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developing working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance? Answer to this question is required Independently provided oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developed working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance for various fire protection systems in a multi-building complex. Under supervision, provided oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and developed working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance for large buildings or a small group of buildings. Assisted in providing oversight over operations, testing, and maintenance of fire protection systems and gathered data and information for the development of working procedures and policies to achieve code compliance. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 6 Which statements reflect your experience with fire protection and life safety surveys? Answer to this question is required I have performed building fire protection surveys that focused on emergency preparedness and response. I have performed detailed fire protection and life safety analyses for a single facility. I have performed detailed fire protection and life safety analyses for multiple buildings and occupancies. I have managed a fire protection and life safety team in the survey and analyses of multiple buildings and occupancies. I have coordinated fire protection and life safety reports from multiple locations to provide a comprehensive management report identifying recommendations and priorities for action bases on risk ratings. I have evaluated fire protection / life safety surveys for completeness and correct application of fire protection and life safety engineering concepts, including an analysis of trends and leading and lagging markers of the data. I have performed assessments on facility fire protection/life safety programs to identify gaps and areas of improvement. I have never performed fire protection and life safety surveys to evaluate the protection of buildings. 7 Which of the&nbsp;following describes your knowledge of fire protection engineering principles and practices to coordinate or manage fire protection programs? Answer to this question is required Assisted in the development and execution of a comprehensive fire prevention/protection and/or an emergency management program. Served as a project coordinator on fire protection related activities. Maintained liaison with local agency officials to ensure cooperation and coordinated with fire departments to ensure proper response for emergencies. Performed with supervision the well-established aspects of a fire prevention/protection and/or an emergency management program, such as tracking projects from the conception stage to completion and scheduling appropriate meetings and reviews. Gathered technical resource data to assist in a broad range of activities related to the implementation or coordination of a fire prevention/protection and emergency management program. Investigated a limited number of variables in accordance with approaches that were structured by others. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 8 Please select the responses that reflect your experience reviewing building plans and approving design and construction projects. Answer to this question is required Reviewed drawings, sketches, and notes for small building renovations. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for major building renovations. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for new building constructions. Reviewed specifications, project drawings, and contract submittals for historic building renovations. I do not have this type of experience. 9 Which statement&nbsp;best describes your highest level of experience in communicating with colleagues in both formal and informal settings? Answer to this question is required Conducted meetings to plan work efforts or to resolve engineering problems. Presented findings at meetings or conducted specialized technical training within and outside the agency. Participated in discussions to plan work efforts or to resolve engineering problems, and/or presented findings at meetings within or outside the agency. Worked as a research team member and interpreted facts for investigations or studies; or conveyed information about a project to colleagues within the agency. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in producing written products? Answer to this question is required Developed technical engineering reports, publications, or documents in the specialization of the position. Developed engineering papers, reports of study findings, technical decision documents and/or articles. Developed papers and reports explaining scientific or technical nonstandard subject matter. Experience, education, or training less than the levels described above. None of the Above 11 Select all responses from the list below that reflect the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts. Answer to this question is required Explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers. Planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations. Informed colleagues or senior management of events that may affect ongoing work. Collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals. 12 Please indicate which of the following leadership activities you have performed at work: Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Writing reports or findings regarding investigations or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. None of the above 13 Which response best describes your highest level of experience administering contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience administering contracts. I have education or training related to administering contracts, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team to administer contracts. I have been independently administered contracts as a COTR. 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.