Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Secretary receives all visitors and telephone calls.&nbsp; He/she answers telephones and gives information to callers, takes messages, or transfers calls to appropriate individual. He/she also greets visitors or callers and handles their inquiries or directs them to the appropriate staff member.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained visiting procedures; and/or I have assisted in training others on routine office procedures; and/or I have answered questions regarding the workload on a recurring basis; and/or I have provided assistance to staff on time and attendance issues; and/or I have explained how to complete basic personnel/training forms. I have provided supervisor with an update on status of current work assignments; and/or I have reserved conference rooms for scheduled meetings or training sessions; and/or I have responded to inquiries on general issues related to the agency/department; and/or I have provided information related to staff availability to callers. I have screened calls for staff; and/or I have assisted staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on non-technical issues; and/or I have advised supervisor regarding issues affecting work; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the public or employees; and/or I have trained co-workers on routine office procedures; and/or I have provided input on issues affecting the office. None of the above. 3 The Secretary composes non-technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects. He/she responds to routine requests for information, such as the status of reports, suspense dates for matters requiring compliance, and similar information readily available from files.&nbsp; He/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by high level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes for staff meetings; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings using an existing template format and summarized background information for a supervisor; and/or I have checked reports for conformance to format and procedural requirements; and/or I have provided an email response to a request from a staff member; and/or I have prepared work status reports for supervisor. I have completed travel authorizations; and/or I have composed an internal memorandum explaining upcoming events; and/or I have reviewed all correspondence to ensure proper grammar and format was utilized; and/or I have recorded minutes at a meeting. I have requested supplies from supply room or warehouse; and/or I have provided a written request to building services for a repair or installation; and/or I have typed correspondence from rough draft. None of the above. 4 The Secretary coordinates the workflow of the office by ensuring that daily activities are performed in a timely manner. He/she also devises new methods/procedures that will enhance the orderly operation of the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected requested data for the supervisor; and/or I have ensured files are maintained in an organized manner; and/or I have arranged travel reservations for supervisor; and/or I have maintained the calendar for the manager/supervisor; and/or I have monitored correspondence logs to ensure timely responses; and/or I have updated frequently used automated systems/formats as needed. I have reported maintenance or equipment problems to appropriate personnel and scheduled for repair; and/or I have ordered materials, supplies or equipment; and/or I have made photocopies of correspondence, documents or other printed materials; sorted and distributed incoming email and correspondence; and/or I have prepared invoices, reports, memos, letters, financial statements and other documents utilizing appropriate word processing software; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff or supervisor in the completion of projects; and/or I have maintained information files; and/or I have prioritized daily tasks under supervision; and/or I have consulted with the supervisor on guidance for the completion of tasks. I have maintained an adequate level of supplies for the office by ordering prior to depletion; and/or I have ordered furniture and coordinated delivery dates, including the return of any damaged products; and/or I have determined where mail should be forwarded; and/or I have maintained a file system by filing material/information in a timely manner; and/or I have sorted and distributed messages. None of the above. 5 The Secretary maintains the computerized tracking system and monitors databases to ensure timely completion of work. He/she uses word processing and computer programs in the performance of a variety of administrative duties. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved information from an established database; and/or I have successfully prepared basic documents and/or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have successfully completed a word processing course; and/or I have created file directories. I have entered and printed information from established files; and/or I have successfully completed a training course for presentation software; and/or I have created labels for file folders; and/or I have maintained office maintenance records. I have used a word processing program to produce and edit letters; and/or I have scanned documents to Microsoft Word to email to requesting parties and print hard copies for the file; and/or I have created labels for file folders. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Secretary receives all visitors and telephone calls.&nbsp; He/she answers telephones and gives information to callers, takes messages, or transfers calls to appropriate individual. He/she also greets visitors or callers and handles their inquiries or directs them to the appropriate staff member. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained visiting procedures; and/or I have assisted in training others on routine office procedures; and/or I have answered questions regarding the workload on a recurring basis; and/or I have provided assistance to staff on time and attendance issues; and/or I have explained how to complete basic personnel/training forms. I have greeted visitors or callers and handled their inquiries or directed them to the appropriate individuals according to their needs; and/or I have answered routine administrative questions from callers; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers; and/or I have assisted in resolving minor complaints that impacted the work area; and/or I have answered telephone and provided information to callers, took messages, or transferred calls to appropriate individuals; and/or I have contributed information during informal meetings, gatherings, or discussions. I have screened calls for staff; and/or I have assisted staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on non-technical issues; and/or I have advised supervisor regarding issues affecting work; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the public or employees; and/or I have trained co-workers on routine office procedures; and/or I have provided input on issues affecting the office. None of the above. 3 The Secretary composes non-technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects. He/she responds to routine requests for information, such as the status of reports, suspense dates for matters requiring compliance, and similar information readily available from files. &nbsp;He/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by high level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes for staff meetings; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings using an existing template format and summarized background information for a supervisor; and/or I have checked reports for conformance to format and procedural requirements; and/or I have provided an email response to a request from a staff member; and/or I have prepared work status reports for supervisor. I have completed travel authorizations; and/or I have composed an internal memorandum explaining upcoming events; and/or I have reviewed all correspondence to ensure proper grammar and format was utilized; and/or I have recorded minutes at a meeting. I have prepared executive correspondence for higher level review; and/or I have established the format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared an agenda/program for a conference as discussed in event planning meetings; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared for the supervisor and other staff; and/or I have advised and made suggestions concerning proper format and content for correspondence. None of the above. 4 The Secretary coordinates the workflow of the office by ensuring that daily activities are performed in a timely manner. He/she also devises new methods/procedures that will enhance the orderly operation of the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared monitored and kept the supervisor abreast on the cost center budget by ensuring any budget concerns or issues were addressed for planning future purchases; and/or I have coordinated a conference to include tasks, such as researching various venues for selection, making travel and hotel arrangements for participants; and/or I have coordinated training for participants and prepared conference materials and information; and/or I have coordinated work with other departments for special projects; and/or I have established a new filing system or other data collection system; and/or I have evaluated software/hardware and made a recommendation for selection; and/or I have screened mail prior to distribution for suspense dates; and/or I have assisted the supervisor in planning for future resources (i.e. office supplies, staffing, and work assignment changes). I have reported maintenance or equipment problems to appropriate personnel and scheduled for repair; and/or I have ordered materials, supplies or equipment; and/or I have made photocopies of correspondence, documents or other printed materials; and/or I have sorted and distributed incoming email and correspondence; and/or I have prepared invoices, reports, memos, letters, financial statements and other documents utilizing appropriate word processing software; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff or supervisor in the completion of projects; and/or I have maintained information files; and/or I have prioritized daily tasks under supervision; and/or I have consulted with the supervisor on guidance for the completion of tasks. I have maintained an adequate level of supplies for the office by ordering prior to depletion; and/or I have ordered furniture and coordinated delivery dates, including the return of any damage products; and/or I have determined where mail should be forwarded; and/or I have maintained a file system by filing material/information in a timely manner; and/or I have sorted and distributed messages. None of the above. 5 The Secretary maintains the computerized tracking system and monitors databases to ensure timely completion of work. He/she uses word processing and computer programs in the performance of a variety of administrative duties. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and printed information from established files; and/or I have successfully completed a training course for presentation software; and/or I have created labels for file folders; and/or I have maintained office maintenance records. I have retrieved information from an established database; and/or I have prepared templates/documents and/or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have created an automated routing process for general correspondence. I have researched information from various sources to complete non-standardized forms; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted documents and/or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have scanned correspondence to agency offices or officials. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).