Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position at the journeyman level. Failure to specifically identify skills equivalent to a journeyman may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Pipefitter Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have led co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training to new workers; and/or I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 Pipefitter Supervisors must have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have obtained a degree in criminology or other related area; and/or I have worked in a correctional facility; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization. I have researched information related to possible careers in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have completed the interview process for a position in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have submitted an application to vacancy announcement for a position dealing with inmates at a correctional facility; and/or I have attended a law enforcement career fair; and/or I have completed a college course in corrections, law enforcement, or other related field. I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 4 Pipefitter Supervisors must have knowledge of the overall repair and installation of complex valves and steam traps; the installation, prefabrication and assembly of pipe systems of various pipe materials and equipment; and the operation of shop machinery and test equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assembled drainage systems; and/or I have repaired modulating or power driven valves; and/or I have worked on street sewer and drainage systems for cities. I have installed various kinds of pre-fabricated pipe systems involving clay pipe, copper, cast iron, plastic, etc.; and/or I have experience in the use of heating torches, solders, fluxes, and special glues; and/or I have experience in the installation of sewer and drainage systems, pipe systems for garden sprinklers and overhead fire sprinklers; and/or I have performed "roughing in" for fixtures. I have experienced in assembling and setting in place various piping fixtures, reaming, drilling, etc.; and/or I have performed repair of simple malfunctioning systems, valves, etc.; and/or I have performed set-up of welding equipment for specialized repairs. None of the above. 5 Pipefitter Supervisors must have knowledge of the functions performed in the shop and in the field under different work situations and knowledge of alternative methods and/or tricks of the trade and latest developments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a formal apprenticeship program; and/or I have completed measurements for various types of piping fixtures; and/or I have used various municipal codes and ordinances; and/or I have developed a familiarity with the various methods of tunneling underground pipe. As a helper, I have assisted journeymen who were employing trade skills and methods in stopping leaks in preparation for copper pipe sweating, etc.; and/or I have assisted journeyman in layout of sewer and drainage systems; and/or I have completed draining cleaning with sewer equipment. I have supervised a crew working on high rise structures, high pressure lines, large pumps, etc.; and/or I have used latest developments in unusual piping materials such as glass, special plastics, etc.; and/or I have worked on piping systems in connection with nuclear power plants; and/or I have certified as a pipe welder. None of the above. 6 Pipefitter Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications, such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as an apprentice or learner pipefitter; and/or I have assisted journeyman in layout of steam pipe systems; and/or I have assisted in the installation and repair of steam trap systems. I have experience in working from blueprints, specifications, work orders, etc.; and/or I have experience as an independent pipefitter, planner and/or estimator; and/or I have successfully completed a formal apprenticeship program. I have experience with plans, estimates and contracts for my own work on difficult and involved projects such as large restaurants, hospitals, laundries, etc.; and/or I have used AUTO CAD in installation and layout of plumbing systems; and/or I have used ASME code in relation to steam operating systems. None of the above. 7 Pipefitter Supervisors must have the ability to lay out work from blueprints, and in using tools common to the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined exact material needs; and/or I have laid out work to be completed; and/or I have laid out and installed commercial building piping systems. I have experience as an estimator or a planner performing extensive remodeling as an independent contractor or sub-contractor; and/or I have experience in constructing schools, hospitals, etc; and/or I have laid out and installed complex piping systems. I have followed blueprints in laying out pre-ordered materials; and/or I have installed and laid out simple pipe and drain systems from job orders, sketches or verbal orders; and/or I have laid out and installed residential piping systems. None of the above. 8 Pipefitter Supervisors must have the knowledge of and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used equipment properly on routine tasks and seek assistance for more complex projects; and/or as a crew member, I have used hand tools; and/or I have limited experience using basic power tools. I have used hydraulic cast iron pipe cutter, burning torch, tapping machine, tunneling equipment, etc.; and/or I have experience in the use of pipe swedging and seating tools; and/or I have experience in the use of various piping materials, such as terra cotta, plastic, wrought iron, cast iron, copper and glass; and/or I have used and maintained arc/mig/tig welding equipment. I have worked with plastic glues, dissimilar metals, cement, etc.; and/or I have experience in the use of special tools designed for the use on a particular job; and/or I have experience with hand and power tools relevant to the pipefitting trade; and/or I have used power and hand tools as intended. None of the above. 9 Pipefitter Supervisors must have the ability to independently diagnose problems, determine methods of repair, adjust or replace and test repaired equipment, and recommend alternatives and solutions relative to the pipefitting trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience as an expert troubleshooter; and/or I have diagnosed trouble and determined remedy when other competent workers have failed to find the source of the problem; and/or I have experience in diagnosing trouble and determining remedy in complicated systems where knowledge of other lines of work is required. I have experienced in discovering simple malfunctions when troubleshooting involved the simplest decisions such as locating and repairing a leaky valve in a water main; and/or I have discovered malfunctions where source of trouble was betrayed by appearance, sound or response; and/or I have discovered malfunctions by direct observation. I have experienced in diagnosing and determining remedy for common troubles; and/or I have experience in troubleshooting with instruments common to the trade; and/or I have performed typical troubleshooting where problems were easily determined and located. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).