Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your highest level of education. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelors degree or higher. I have an associates degree. I have a high school diploma/GED certificate. None of the above. 2 Select the choice that best describes your years of experience. Answer to this question is required I have at least two years of experience working in a court setting. I have at least two years of experience working in a legal office setting. I have at least two years of experience working in a general office setting. None of the above. 3 Can you speak, interpret, read and write Spanish and English fluently? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Can you type at least 40 words per minute? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the responses that best describe your level of experience providing customer service in a professional environment? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience providing customer service in a professional environment. I have provided customer service in a legal environment, court or community service agency. I have been trained on providing customer service but have not performed this activity on the job. I have identified customer needs and provided service that adhered to quality standards in defined situations. 6 Select the level of experience that best describes your ability to effectively communicate in English and Spanish. Check All that apply Answer to this question is required Explaining a situation Giving an opinion or advice Persuading someone None of the above 7 With which of the following software programs do you have experience in a professional setting? Select all responses that apply. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Outlook Case Management Systems Law Enforcement Databases None of the above 8 Select the statement that best describes your experience working with highly confidential information. Answer to this question is required I have not had an opportunity to display this ability. It is not a normal part of my responsibilities. I have used this ability as part of my duties in an administrative capacity. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am required to comply with confidentiality standards on a daily basis in an environment where I am responsible for maintaining confidential records in compliance with confidentiality requirements. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. 9 Select the audiences with which you have had communication. Answer to this question is required Senior Managers Managers Colleagues Subordinates Law Enforcement Agencies Private industry General public Technical experts Judges Non-profit organizations Attorneys None of the above 10 Which duties have you performed in a professional setting? Select all responses that apply Answer to this question is required Answering telephones Creating documents on a word processor Maintaining a filing system Creating a filing system Creating a database Maintaining an existing database Receiving/distributing mail Retrieving information from various sources Reviewing documents and forms for accuracy Assisting customers None of the above 11 Which of the following best characterizes your highest level of experience resolving complex problems for an administrative issue? Answer to this question is required I have identified a problem. I have identified a problem and its root cause. I have identified a problem, its root cause, and developed a solution. I have identified a problem, its root cause, and developed and implemented a solution that anticipated and avoided potential conflicts. None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).