Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department of Education Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14- Choose the one that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal government I do not meet the requirement described above 2 Select the statement that best describes your experience coordinating personal security arrangements of senior agency officials. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Select the statement that best describes your knowledge in the use of firearms. Answer to this question is required I possess the experience handling and/or using a firearm which includes completing formal firearm safety training. I have maintained proficiency in the use of a variety of firearms. I have prior experience using a firearm in the performance of my law enforcement related duties. I currently carry a firearm in the performance of my law enforcement related. None of the above 4 Completing administrative duties regarding personnel actions for direct reports (e.g. Performance appraisals, recommending awards, disciplining, etc.) Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Have you developed and written protective procedures and operations manuals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience in working in a protective capacity as on a permanent protective detail? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select the statement(s) that best characterizes your communication experience. Answer to this question is required Brief the principal on security matters. Brief management on security matters. Coordinate with local/state/federal law enforcement agencies. Coordinate closely with senior staff and official guests of the Department. Attend meetings with senior law enforcement officials. Chair meetings with senior law enforcement officials. Serve as a Training Instructor. None of the above. 8 Plans and administers law enforcement and related protective programs for Federal agencies. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Please select all of the following you have demonstrated experience in: Answer to this question is required Writing formal reports designed to be issued to Congress or the public Writing agency policy Creating briefings for Senior Executives, Congress, or the public Assisting in the creation of an OIG’s Semi-Annual Report to Congress Conducting reviews of case files to ensure compliance with policy and standards Conducting formal training or informational presentations to groups Conducting outreach and liaison with external organizations to enhance your organizations mission None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Are you currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please indicate below the special hiring authorities under which you are eligible and wish to be considered for selection . You may select more than one response. (Note: to be considered under a special hiring authority, you must indicate your eligibility below. Consideration will only be given to persons who are verified as being eligible under the authorities specified in the &ldquo;Who May Apply&rdquo; section of this job announcement and provided supporting documents as requested under the "Required Documents" section.) Answer to this question is required Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) Severe Physical or mental Disability (Schedule A) 30% or More Disable Veteran Former Peace Corps Volunteer Current/Former Peace Corps Employee Military Spouse Other Non-applicable 3 If your selection was number 7-"other" to the above question, please specify the Noncompetitive Authority you are applying under. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Notices FOIA Privacy Accessibility Security Information Quality Inspector General Whitehouse.gov USA.gov Benefits.gov Regulations.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).