Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Licensure: Applicants for all grade levels and specializations must be currently licensed to practice as dental hygienists in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia. NOTE: Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Essentially, they must (l) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as radiographers in their field. The following meet these requirements: Persons employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel prior to the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986) who show evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others. Persons first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel after the effective date of the regulation who (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, provided that such persons show evidence of training, experience, and competence as determined by OPM or the employing agency. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements described in A. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload proof of current, active and unrestricted license for verification at the time you apply. Applicants must also electronically upload evidence of completing a program that certifies them to administer X-rays or perform radiologic procedures. Evidence of program completion includes a transcript or documentation that includes your course work in administering X-rays or performing radiologic procedures. Self certification of program completion will not be accepted. Your documentation must be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Dental Hygienist must have knowledge of oral hygiene in order to prevent infection and instruct patients in proper dental care. He/she must provide comprehensive oral health education and dental hygiene treatment to different patient groups with assistance from members of the dental services staff.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with patients to plan and coordinate treatment; and/or I have presented basic information on oral health care to various patient groups/individuals; and/or I have sterilized equipment and instruments after each patient; and/or I have disinfected seating areas, operative light, and countertops before and after oral procedures; and/or I have utilized ultrasonic cleaner and steam autoclave; and/or I have taught patients specialized techniques such as use of interproximal brushes, floss threaders, and disclosing agents; and/or I have provided therapeutic instruction to patient in the home care phase of treatment. As needed, I have revised procedures for instructing inmate patients in oral hygiene, brushing/flossing techniques, and periodontal aids; and/or I have as improvement and/or policies changed, planned and adapted instructions for in home care techniques; and/or I have regularly instructed nurses and nursing assistants in the latest proper techniques of oral hygiene; and/or I have presented information on oral health care for various patient groups/individuals. I have assisted in development of preventive program for multi-dentist facilities; and/or I have assisted in conducting aggressive preventive maintenance and oral hygiene programs for various individual patients or groups of patients (i.e., diabetic, cancer, psychiatric, geriatric, alcoholic, and physically challenged patients); and/or I have ensured dental clinic met American Dental Association (ADA) and other guidelines for infection control; and/or I have worked with and re-assured patients who were nervous, fearful, or unfamiliar with dental procedures; and/or I have adjusted to different styles of dentistry as provided by various contractors; and/or I have assisted with training new staff, contractors, as needed. None of the above. 4 The Dental Hygienist is responsible for making the necessary preparation for each treatment and providing pre- and post- treatment patient services.&nbsp; He/she develops procedural instructions to be used by dental hygienists, dental assistants, dieticians, nutritionists as well as the nursing staff in the delivery of oral health care to patients.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As directed, I have sterilized operative instruments; and/or I have assisted with scheduling surgical procedures for Dentist; and/or I have as instructed, assisted with disinfecting all work surfaces, equipment and materials before and after surgery. After reviewing x-rays, I have refreshed Dentist regarding planned operative procedure(s); and/or I have prepared appropriate operative equipment and materials; and/or I have consistent with protocol, provided patients with post-operative treatment care; and/or I have personally sterilized instruments consistent with all policies; and/or I have post-operatively, removed sutures at the appropriate time. I have prior to surgery, prepared appropriate instruments; and/or I have provided post-operative treatment information to patient regarding self-care; and/or I have conducted basic orientation classes for new hygienists and patients regarding expectation(s) and basic procedures for dental surgery. None of the above. 5 The Dental Hygienist must be able to take various types of x-rays, position patients properly for x-rays, develop x-ray film or utilize digital imaging equipment, and maintain radiographic equipment.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exposed bite wing and panoramic x-rays; and/or I have positioned film and machine to ensure coverage of the area to be x-rayed; and/or I have exposed lateral head x-rays of the oral cavity; and/or I have selected types of radiographs necessary for patient’s mouth; and/or I have interpreted routine x-rays to identify tooth structures, calculus, and abnormalities; and/or I have determined the Kilovoltage peak (KVP) needed for varying teeth (i.e., molars vs incisors) as well as bone density. I have properly positioned the patient for taking x-rays; and/or I have positioned tube head to take x-rays used in dental hygiene (i.e., periapical and bitewing views); and/or I have mounted and labeled x-rays or managed digital images. I have adjusted voltage, amperage and timing of x-ray equipment; and/or I have maintained specialized equipment; and/or I have cleaned and prepared solution tanks; and/or I have maintained automated film processing equipment or digital imaging equipment; and/or I have adjusted film speed, filtration and cone length as necessary. None of the above. 6 The Dental Hygienist must be an effective communicator educating patients, physicians, superiors and peers about oral health, explaining procedures, and building trust, ultimately leading to better patient outcomes and satisfaction. He/she has the capacity to collaborate with dentists and other members of the health care team to ensure a coordinated approach to patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted Dentist by checking on patient comfort during treatment to support allay patient anxiety; and/or I have offered constructive feedback and praise to motivate patients to improve their oral hygiene habits; and/or I have assisted Dentist with providing patients with instructions on how to care for their teeth and gums after procedures. I have provided informal professional training to mid-level managers; and/or I have summarized key findings and concerns for the dentist to address; and/or I have conducted initial patient exams, discussed oral health history, and identified any concerns that needed to be brought to the dentist's attention; and/or I have made the dentist aware of the patient's understanding and any barriers to treatment; and/or I have counseled patients to practice good dental health who presented with patient-behavioral and communication challenges; and/or I have educated patients on proper brushing and flossing techniques, the importance of fluoride, and the impact of diet on oral health; and/or I have used visual aids such as photographs, charts or models to illustrate oral health issues and ensure patients understand their treatment plan; and/or I have supervised inmates in the dental department. I have explained the relationship of good oral hygiene and nutrition to inmates or patients related to dental caries and periodontal disease; and/or I have explained how basic nutrition and the abstinence from tobacco and alcohol relates to good oral health; and/or I have counseled inmates or patients regarding the risk factor for oral cancer; and/or I have assisted with providing basic training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have explained newly implemented policy or procedure to contractors; and/or I have asked the patient open ended questions and summarized what the patient had said to ensure understanding; and/or I have explained dental conditions and taught proper oral hygiene techniques; and/or I have made recommendations to help patients select toothbrushes and other oral devices; and/or I have assisted with handling disruptive inmates or patients. None of the above. Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Licensure: Applicants for all grade levels and specializations must be currently licensed to practice as dental hygienists in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia. NOTE: Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Essentially, they must (l) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as radiographers in their field. The following meet these requirements: Persons employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel prior to the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986) who show evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others. Persons first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel after the effective date of the regulation who (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, provided that such persons show evidence of training, experience, and competence as determined by OPM or the employing agency. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements described in A. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload proof of current, active and unrestricted license for verification at the time you apply. Applicants must also electronically upload evidence of completing a program that certifies them to administer X-rays or perform radiologic procedures. Evidence of program completion includes a transcript or documentation that includes your course work in administering X-rays or performing radiologic procedures. Self certification of program completion will not be accepted. Your documentation must be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Dental Hygienist must have knowledge of oral hygiene in order to prevent infection and instruct patients in proper dental care. He/she must provide comprehensive oral health education and dental hygiene treatment to different patient groups with assistance from members of the dental services staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a preventive program for multi-dentist and hygienist facilities; and/or I have developed surveillance system to determine the oral health needs of the institution population (i.e., prevalence and incidence studies); and/or I have implemented public health programs and curriculum to target special need populations; and/or I have assisted Chief Dentist and others in the selection of qualified contractor personnel; and/or I have developed and conducted training for contractor and new staff. I have assisted in development of preventive program for multi-dentist facilities; and/or I have assisted in conducting aggressive preventive maintenance and oral hygiene programs for various individual patients or groups of patients (i.e., diabetic, cancer, psychiatric, geriatric, alcoholic, and physically challenged patients); and/or I have ensured dental clinic met American Dental Association (ADA) and other guidelines for infection control; and/or I have worked with and re-assured patients who were nervous, fearful, or unfamiliar with dental procedures; and/or I have adjusted to different styles of dentistry as provided by various contractors; and/or I have assisted with training new staff, contractors, as needed. I have as needed, revised procedures for instructing inmate patients in oral hygiene, brushing/flossing techniques, and periodontal aids; and/or I have as improvement and/or policies changed, planned and adapted instructions for in home care techniques; and/or I have regularly instructed nurses and nursing assistants in the latest proper techniques of oral hygiene; and/or I have presented information on oral health care for various patient groups/individuals. None of the above. 4 The Dental Hygienist is responsible for making the necessary preparation for each treatment and providing pre- and post- treatment patient services.&nbsp;He/she develops procedural instructions to be used by dental hygienists, dental assistants, dieticians, nutritionists as well as the nursing staff in the delivery of oral health care to patients.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prior to surgery, prepared appropriate instruments; and/or I have provided post-operative treatment information to patient regarding self-care; and/or I have conducted basic orientation classes for new hygienists and patients regarding expectation(s) and basic procedures for dental surgery. I have ensured assistant and inmate workers maintained a clean and disinfected operative environment consistent with all American Dental Association (ADA) and other guidelines; and/or I have after reviewing the medical history, prepared patients for periodontal surgery by performing deep scaling; and/or I have prepared patient by performing root planning therapy; and/or I have recorded pocket depth and severity of disease; and/or I have recognized and identified systemic or medical conditions that can affect periodontal health pre- and post-surgically; and/or I have only if trained and licensed, administered local anesthetic injections. I have after reviewing x-rays, refreshed Dentist regarding planned operative procedure(s); and/or I have prepared appropriate operative equipment and materials; and/or I have consistent with protocol, provided patients with post-operative treatment care; and/or I have personally sterilized instruments consistent with all policies; and/or I have post-operatively, removed sutures at the appropriate time. None of the above. 5 The Dental Hygienist must be able to take various types of x-rays, position patients properly for x-rays, develop x-ray film or utilize digital imaging equipment, and maintain radiographic equipment.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exposed bite wing and panoramic x-rays; and/or I have positioned film and machine to ensure coverage of the area to be x-rayed; and/or I have exposed lateral head x-rays of the oral cavity; and/or I have selected types of radiographs necessary for patient’s mouth; and/or I have interpreted routine x-rays to identify tooth structures, calculus, and abnormalities; and/or I have determined the Kilovoltage peak (KVP) needed for varying teeth (i.e., molars vs incisors) as well as bone density. I have utilized digital software for radiographs; and/or I have manipulated radiography for accurate diagnosis; and/or I have maintained a computer database of digital dental images; and/or I have made digital panoramic and periapical images; and/or I have used the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Guidelines for prescribing dental radiographs; and/or I have managed radiological safety in a dental setting (i.e., tracking and recording of dosimetry meters, timely testing of patient barriers/shields). I have adjusted voltage, amperage and timing of x-ray equipment; and/or I have maintained specialized equipment; and/or I have cleaned and prepared solution tanks; and/or I have maintained automated film processing equipment or digital imaging equipment; and/or I have adjusted film speed, filtration and cone length as necessary. None of the above. 6 The Dental Hygienist must be an effective communicator educating patients, physicians, superiors and peers about oral health, explaining procedures, and building trust, ultimately leading to better patient outcomes and satisfaction. He/she has the capacity to collaborate with dentists and other members of the health care team to ensure a coordinated approach to patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a work group; and/or I have conducted training for agency audience at a training facility or for professional organizations; and/or I have gave formal presentations to management of an agency/organization/industry; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding the industry operations; and/or I have gave formal presentations at job fairs, community events or vendor fairs; and/or I have provided orientation/mentoring for all newly hired contractors. I have explained the relationship of good oral hygiene and nutrition to inmates or patients related to dental caries and periodontal disease; and/or I have explained how basic nutrition and the abstinence from tobacco and alcohol relates to good oral health; and/or I have counseled inmates or patients regarding the risk factor for oral cancer; and/or I have assisted with providing basic training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have explained newly implemented policy or procedure to contractors; and/or I have asked the patient open ended questions and summarized what the patient had said to ensure understanding; and/or I have explained dental conditions and taught proper oral hygiene techniques; and/or I have made recommendations to help patients select toothbrushes and other oral devices; and/or I have assisted with handling disruptive inmates or patients). I have provided informal professional training to mid-level managers; and/or I have summarized key findings and concerns for the dentist to address; and/or I have conducted initial patient exams, discussed oral health history, and identified any concerns that needed to be brought to the dentist's attention; and/or I have made the dentist aware of the patient's understanding and any barriers to treatment; and/or I have counseled patients to practice good dental health who presented with patient-behavioral and communication challenges; and/or I have educated patients on proper brushing and flossing techniques, the importance of fluoride, and the impact of diet on oral health; and/or I have used visual aids such as photographs, charts or models to illustrate oral health issues and ensure patients understand their treatment plan; and/or I have supervised inmates in the dental department. I have or I have explained the disease process, the role of bacteria in caries and periodontal health, and provided information on home care and recommended oral care aids; and/or I have communicated the importance of preventive care and the consequences of delaying treatment; and/or I have counseled inmates or patients in a correctional institution or clinical setting which presented significant patient behavior and communication problems (i.e., instructed and developed program for patients who are mentally ill or instructed and developed program for patients who have profound physical handicaps); and/or I have managed highly aggressive inmates or patients. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).