Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one answer below that best describes your experience as related to the qualification requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet the requirement as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your understanding of the safe application of appropriate chemicals, piping, substrates, and electronic apparatus used in aquatic life support construction and maintenance? Answer to this question is required I have experience in the successful identification, and use of chemicals, piping, substrates, and electronics used in aquatic life support systems. I have experience in the successful use of chemicals, piping, filter substrates, electronics used in aquatic life support systems. I have experience in the successful use of chemicals, piping, filter substrate, and electronics used in aquatic life support systems. I have experience using chemicals, piping, and electronics, in aquatic life support systems. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with water quality testing and maintenance of life support systems for aquatic animals? Answer to this question is required I have experience in conducting water quality tests as needed for aquatic animals and have maintained or adjusted life support systems. I have experience in conducting water quality tests for aquatic animals. I have experience in conducting water quality tests in other situations. None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your experience building and directing an aquatic life support systems team including leading a diverse workforce of system operators, Curators, Assistant Curators, interns and volunteers in the exhibition and progressive husbandry of exotic and native animals within a public aquarium, zoological park or similar facility? Answer to this question is required I have experience and managerial proficiencies to lead a team of technicians and operators of aquatic life support systems to include: hiring; performance plans and appraisals; safety programs for animals and people; corrective personnel actions; promotional opportunities; training; and professional development. I have experience and established skills in an aquatic environments operations program including: managing resources; establishing criteria for the water quality and water chemistry of individual systems; development of written monitoring and maintenance protocols for aquatic systems; and the implementation of safety protocols in the disinfection of water by chlorination or ozone systems. I have experience and ability to work as a principal member of teams comprising of staff from other departments, architects, engineers and contractors to plan, design/engineer, renovate, construct and open exhibits where aquatic environments are featured. I do not have related experience. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience providing safe operations and servicing of life support systems (LSS) pumps, filters, strainers, disinfection systems, chillers, heat exchangers, ozone generators, and pool cleaning equipment? Answer to this question is required I have experience in the safe use of ozone production systems for disinfection of water including air dryers, oxygen concentrators, compressors, ozone generators, ozone piping and valves, contact chambers, degas chambers, and ozone destruct systems in a zoological or laboratory setting. I have experience performing routine operations of LSS systems including but not limited to: sand or bead filters, biological filtration, foam fractionators, chlorination systems, aeration systems, chillers, and heat exchangers in a zoological or laboratory setting I have experience in the safe operation of pumps, filters, strainers, disinfection systems, treatment of municipal water, and pool cleaning in a zoological or laboratory setting. I have experience in the basic operation of life support systems in a zoological or laboratory setting. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your understanding of chemical, biological, and mechanical aspects of aquatic life support systems, and the role each plays in the design and operation of these systems including but not limited to plumbing, water chemistry, biological filtration, biofilms, chlorine chemistry, chiller and heat exchanger sizing, and sand filter maintenance? Answer to this question is required I have experience with and knowledge on all aspects of aquatic life support systems, including but not limited to plumbing, water chemistry, biological filtration, biofilms, chlorine chemistry, chiller and heater exchanger sizing, and sand filter maintenance. I have experience with and knowledge of all aspects of aquatic life support systems, including but not limited to plumbing, water chemistry, biological filtration, chlorine injection technology, and sand filter maintenance. I have experience with and knowledge in some aspects of aquatic life support systems including but not limited to plumbing, water chemistry, and sand filter maintenance. I have experience with and knowledge of sand filter maintenance. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience presenting ideas clearly and concisely in writing? Answer to this question is required I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in written communication. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in written communication, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.