Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Special Investigative Agent must be able to interview/interrogate witnesses/subjects in the resolution of cases being investigated. He/she participates in trials by providing expert testimony and assistance to federal, state, and local judicial officials. He/she also provides technical advice and direction to executive staff and training to line staff on a variety of topics dealing with investigative techniques. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical advice or guidance to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/Executive Staff during an emergency situation; and/or I have provided intensive technical training to a group of law enforcement officials; and/or I have obtained relevant evidence that resulted in an administrative disciplinary finding of guilty; and/or I have interviewed staff involved in committing acts of misconduct; and/or I have conducted weekly intelligence briefings for the Executive Staff which provided pertinent information affecting institution operations; and/or I have conducted briefings with staff and/or local law enforcement officials concerning intelligence gathering. I have conducted briefings with staff and/or local law enforcement officials concerning intelligence gathering on inmates or inmate groups; and/or I have conducted weekly briefings with the supervisor to keep them advised of investigative activities; and/or I have gathered intelligence and shared it with staff to prevent incidents from occurring; and/or I have conducted briefings and training with pre-approved lesson plans and briefing notes; and/or I have resolved minor disputes between inmates and inmate groups; and/or I have conducted interviews from inmates during investigations; and/or I have counseled staff for poor performance. I have interviewed staff involved in misconduct which resulted in criminal prosecution; and/or I have interviewed inmates and gathered information which prevented an institution disturbance; and/or I have interviewed inmates after an attempted escape attempt; and/or I have provided expert testimony in a criminal proceeding; and/or I have as a police officer, interviewed suspects during an investigation. None of the above. 5 The Special Investigative Agent writes detailed investigative reports, incident reports, and correspondence to support their investigations.&nbsp;He/she initiates and reviews written affidavits from subjects and witnesses, as well as responding to correspondence from other agency officials.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have initiated correspondence and status reports to inform agency staff and outside law enforcement officials of the status of investigations; and/or I have written memorandums detailing new security procedures; and/or I have prepared interrogatories; and/or I have taken staff affidavits; and/or I have prepared a response to an inmate grievance. I have prepared standardized reports for agency staff such as statistical material for decision and informational purposes; and/or I have investigated and written incident reports on infractions committed by inmates; and/or I have written responses to Executive Staff on changes or new developments; and/or I have compiled information gathered from different sources into a report for the Executive Staff. I have written detailed investigative reports and correspondence pertaining to complex investigations; and/or I have developed specialized training materials designed to educate staff on the signs of criminal activity; and/or I have initiated affidavits pertaining to complex staff misconduct investigations. None of the above. 6 The Special Investigative Agent deals with a variety of individuals in conjunction with investigations and intelligence sharing.&nbsp;In addition to dealing with and obtaining testimony from cooperative witnesses, he/she must be able to effectively interact and establish rapport with difficult individuals in order to resolve complex cases.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used interpersonal skills to influence others to prove information; and/or I have acted as a liaison between the agency/organization and another agency/organization; and/or I have conducted an interrogation of a witness; and/or I have diffused a hostile interview to obtain needed information. I have established rapport with local, state, and federal law enforcement officials regarding investigations; and/or I have conducted regular meetings with different agencies to form an ongoing network; and/or I have communicated with bargaining unit staff regarding working conditions. I have gathered information from uncooperative individuals; and/or I have been member of a law enforcement task force; and/or I have deposed an individual during an investigation; and/or I have shared intelligence with other government agencies. None of the above. 7 The Special Investigative Agent must have a broad knowledge of correctional programs in order to monitor and conduct investigations involving allegations of staff improprieties. Many of the cases are criminal in nature, while others are violations of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Standards of Employee Conduct. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed, and approved lesson plans for new employee orientation; and/or I have provided institution staff updates on local and national policy; and/or I have researched agency policies to support responses to Freedom of Information Act inquiries; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have assisted in an audit; and/or I have assisted in conducting an investigation; and/or I have assisted in compiling routine reports; and/or I have assisted in yearly reviews of policies and procedures. I have participated in an audit; and/or I have instructed staff about all areas of custody; and/or I have compiled complex reports; and/or I have identified and counseled staff regarding unsafe security issues; and/or I have drafted an incident report after an inmate disturbance or after observing unusual inmate behavior pattern. None of the above. 8 The Special Investigative Agent investigates complex, technical, criminal, and policy infractions committed by staff and inmates.&nbsp;Often times, evidence is negligible, and he/she must be able to analyze information from the testimonies of witnesses or from trace data.&nbsp;He/she must also be able to recognize hidden messages coded in telephone conversation, letters, and notes. Subsequently, he/she must be able to collect relevant information pertinent to the investigation and assess the case based on the information available.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made recommendations to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/Warden on an inmate case; and/or I have conducted an investigation on staff misconduct; and/or I have interviewed inmates to obtain specific information. I have investigated and responded to a Request for Administrative Remedy (BP-9); and/or I have investigated a minor infraction; and/or I have obtained and used urinalysis results to draw conclusions. I have used inmate data systems to determine trends or patterns; and/or I have collected, documented, and presented a case for prosecution by the United States Attorney’s office; and/or I have coordinated and conducted a complex investigation involving staff and inmates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).