Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Religious Services Assistants perform clerical support services for the Religious Services Department or the Life Connections Program. They must prepare and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, write memorandums to management. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, they must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings, using established procedures and formats; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings from written notes. I have developed and written internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have reviewed written work of lower level co-workers for grammar, content, and format. I have completed general office request memos/e-mail messages; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings from written notes; and/or I have written reminder memos to co-workers regarding office procedures. None of the above. 3 Religious Services Assistants are required to orally convey information to their supervisor, co-workers, vendors, the public, inmates, central office and regional office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding assignments.&nbsp;&nbsp;They must possess the ability to verbally communicate information understandable to the intended audience.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to basic requests for information; and/or I have assisted in presenting information to a small group; and/or I have contacted a vendor to gather information requested for purchase. I have responded to inmate inquiries; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff member; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the general public or employees. I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group in the work unit; and/or I have participated as part of a team to provide information; and/or I have assisted in minor complaints impacting work area. None of the above. 4 Religious Services Assistants must be able to research, retrieve, review and process various information pertaining to religious services or Life Connection program operations. They must be able to research and retrieve information and prepare reports and correspondence relative to program objectives.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a memo using Microsoft Word; and/or I have prepared requests for purchase; and/or I have edited correspondence on the computer. I have provided general information to managers and staff via e-mail; and/or I have used the Internet to retrieve information, news releases, updates and related information; and/or I have used a database to track information. I have compiled, sorted, and verified the accuracy of data before it is entered; and/or I have stored completed documents in appropriate locations; and/or I have maintained logs and activities of completed work. None of the above. 5 Religious Services Assistants must maintain systematic files, ledgers, and other required information relative to religious services or Life Connections program area.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have reviewed program area files for completeness; and/or I have maintained an established filing system for document/information storage/retrieval. I have maintained information for established files; and/or I have collected information requested on a standardized form; and/or I have maintained an automated database. I have established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the inventory of supplies; and/or I have gathered and organized requested data for supervisor’s use. None of the above. 6 Religious Services Assistants must have a knowledge of the policies and procedures of a correctional environment, along with religious services or Life Connections Programs specific policies and guidelines.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to inquiries received regarding program/area requirements; and/or I have responded to general leave policy questions; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with policy. I have reviewed emergency/contingency plans as required by policy; and/or I have updated an established checklist to maintain policy compliance; and/or I have requested clarification on new policies/procedures being implemented in work area. I have reviewed post orders and emergency plans, as required by policy; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have reviewed time and attendance records for accuracy. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Religious Services Assistants perform clerical support services for the Religious Services Department or the Life Connections Program.&nbsp;They must prepare and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, and write memorandums to management. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position,&nbsp;they must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and written internal office procedures; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have reviewed written work of lower level co-workers for grammar, content, and format. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings using established procedures and formats; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings from written notes. I have summarized inventory data in a report; and/or I have prepared grammatically error free memoranda for supervisory signature; and/or I have prepared a detailed report explaining potential problems in department operations which included recommendations for further consideration/implementation; and/or I have prepared devotional and religious educational materials. None of the above. 3 Religious Services Assistants are required to orally convey information to their supervisor, co-workers, vendors, the public, inmates, central office and regional office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding assignments.&nbsp; They must possess the ability to verbally communicate information understandable to the intended audience.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to inmate inquiries; and/or I have directed callers to the appropriate staff member; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the general public or employees. I have responded to employees and telephone callers interested in obtaining information; and/or I have communicated with vendors to request information (e.g. bids for office equipment); and/or I have discussed with supervisors information gathered; and/or I have relayed information regarding specific programs/issues to staff. I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group in the work unit; and/or I have participated as part of a team to provide information; and/or I have assisted in minor complaints impacting work area. None of the above. 4 Religious Services Assistants plan and organize work, efficiently utilizing time and available resources. They must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and rearrange priorities when workload dictates.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained fellow employees and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work assignments; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have made travel arrangements for staff; and/or I have maintained supervisor's calendar; and/or I have reserved local conference rooms for meetings; and/or I have maintained tracking system of office expenditures/budget; and/or I have gathered information for special projects. I have monitored, adjusted and distributed the workload for staff, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have ensured any budget concerns or issues were addressed for planning future purchases; and/or I have established a new filing systems or other data collection system; and/or I have operated and maintained libraries (audio, video, and literary) for a program area. None of the above. 5 Religious Services Assistants must be able to research, retrieve, review and process various information pertaining to religious services or Life Connection program operations.&nbsp;They must be able to research and retrieve information and prepare reports and correspondence relative to program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a memo using Microsoft Word; and/or I have prepared requests for purchase; and/or I have edited correspondence on the computer. I have provided general information to managers and staff via e-mail; and/or I have used the Internet to retrieve information, news releases, updates and related information; and/or I have used a database to track information. I have created tables in Microsoft Excel; and/or I have used Microsoft Access to create a database; and/or I have created a desk guide using a variety of Word functions; and/or I have used a computer to obtain criminal record (NCIC/NLETS) checks. None of the above. 6 Religious Services Assistants must maintain systematic files, ledgers, and other required information relative to religious services or Life Connections program area.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information easily; and/or I have assisted with the inventory of supplies; and/or I have gathered and organized requested data for supervisor’s use. I have maintained files for program review or comparable external audit purposes; and/or I have developed a checklist for various program processes which ensured compliance with applicable policies and procedures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have collected and organized information for use by others in preparing comprehensive reports or correspondence; and/or I have conducted property inventories and maintained appropriate records. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have reviewed program area files for completeness; and/or I have maintained an established filing system for document/information storage/retrieval. None of the above. 7 Religious Services Assistants must have a knowledge of the policies and procedures of a correctional environment, along with religious services or Life Connections Programs specific policies and guidelines.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed post orders and emergency plans as required by policy; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have reviewed time and attendance records for accuracy. I have applied necessary changes in procedures as indicated by federal policy; and/or I have adhered to policy when determining deadline for vendor payments; and/or I have explained policy and procedures to inmates, staff or others; and/or I have interpreted and applied policies and guidelines pertaining to the processing of employee Time and Attendance records. I have responded to inquiries received regarding program/area requirements; and/or I have responded to general leave policy questions; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).