Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 The following questions will be used to help us determine your eligibility for this Criminal Investigator position. Please read each question carefully before selecting a response. 1 To apply for this position, applicants must be under the age of 37, OR preference-eligible veteran, OR have worked or be currently working in a Federal law enforcement position. Please select one of the following responses: Answer to this question is required I am under 37 years of age. I am 37 years of age or older. I am 37 years or older, but I have prior Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. section 8336 such that, when the years of service is subtracted from my current age, I will be under 37 years of age. I am a preference-eligible veteran. 2 List your Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY) OR your Federal law enforcement series and dates of employment below. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Are you eligible and available for assignment anywhere within the United States, its Territories, and Possessions? I understand that I will be required to sign a Georgraphic Mobility Agreement, attesting to my understanding that I can be relocated by my employer to another geographic locality. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 "This position requires the incumbent to work an average of two or more Law Enforcement Availability Pay (LEAP) hours per scheduled work day, which may include evenings, nights and weekends. The hours worked will vary depending on the nature of the assignment." Are you available to work an average of two or more LEAP hours on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This position requires the incumbent to work various shifts (e.g., 8:15am-5pm), 12am-8am, 4pm-12am, in addition to 2 or more LEAP hours, on a daily basis. In short, the hours worked will vary depending on the nature of your assignment. Are you available to work various shifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I am available for worldwide travel, including travel to countries where adverse OR dangerous conditions may be common. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have a valid US drivers license OR will be able to obtain a valid state motor vehicle operations license by the time I am appointed. Answer to this question is required True False 8 All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to successfully complete a medical evaluation. Are you willing to submit to a medical evaluation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 With which of the following entities outside of your work organization have you developed successful working relationships? Answer to this question is required Agency employees Agency management officials Other Federal law enforcement agencies Other state and local law enforcement agencies Prosecutors General public None of the above 2 Select one description that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 3 From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience solving problems: Answer to this question is required Resolved problems under close supervision. Resolved problems independently. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above. 4 Select from the list below each of the investigative techniques you have successfully employed in the course of your official duties. Answer to this question is required Interviews / interrogations Mail cover Technical surveillance Foot surveillance Record checks Checks of computerized databases Comparison of known photographs of a subject to questioned photographs of a subject Comparison of known documents to questioned documents Link analysis program to establish relationships and graphic representations of those relationships Sworn statements Properly used Miranda, Garrity, or Kalkines warnings Arrest warrants Search warrants Vehicle surveillance Confidential informants Undercover operations Subpoenas None of the above 5 With which of the following do you have experience using during an investigation? Answer to this question is required Non-attributable web search platforms The Onion Router Dark web market places Tracking crypto-currency Dark web search tools Social media evidence collection Whois None of the above 6 What type of experience do you have conducting administrative investigations involving violations of federal regulations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience conducting administrative investigations involving violations of federal regulations. I have been trained to conduct administrative investigations involving violations of federal regulations but have not conducted one. I have conducted administrative investigations involving violations of federal regulations as part of a team. I have served as case agent conducting administrative investigations involving violations of federal regulations. I have supervised an investigative team that conducts administrative investigations involving violations of federal regulations. 7 What type of experience do you have conducting internal investigations involving senior officials (GS-15 or higher) and/or law enforcement officers? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience conducting investigations involving senior officials (GS-15 or higher) and/or law enforcement officers. I have been trained to conduct investigations involving senior officials (GS-15 or higher) and/or law enforcement officers but have not conducted one. I have conducted investigations involving senior officials (GS-15 or higher) and/or law enforcement officers as part of a team. I have served as case agent conducting investigations involving senior officials (GS-15 or higher) and/or law enforcement officers. I have supervised an investigative team that conducts investigations involving senior officials (GS-15 or higher) and/;or law enforcement officers. 8 What experience do you have using manual or software systems to analyze data in an investigation? Answer to this question is required I have training but have not applied my knowledge. I have employed manual means to chart organizations. I have used link analysis software to detect and display organizational relationships in criminal investigations. I have manually constructed timelines. I have used software to construct timelines. I have used software for data mining. I have searched criminal databases. I have used software to identify outstanding warrants. I have used software to identify terrorists. I have used software for statistical reporting. I have used software to organize and analyze financial information. None of the above. 9 Select the types of computer software programs and or applications with which you have worked. Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentations / graphics Database management programs Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical quantitative analysis tools (e.g. SAS, SPSS) Web based programs None of the above 10 Which of the following computer resources have you used? Answer to this question is required General internet search engines (i.e. Google, Yahoo, etc.) Internet subscriber search engines (i.e. Accurint, Choicepoint, Dun & Bradstreet, etc.) Law enforcement databases (i.e. NCIC, TECS, etc.) Internal agency databases and search engines Academic databases and search engines Local government databases None of the above 11 What is your highest level of experience analyzing data and facts for your organization? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed data and facts at a unit or office level. I have analyzed data and facts on an office wide level. I have analyzed data and facts on an agency wide level. I have supervised other persons who regularly analyze data and facts. None of the above 12 I have given oral testimony in a criminal, civil or administrative proceeding in the course of my law enforcement career. Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One on One discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 14 From the following list of oral communication situations, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Conducted interviews (including subject interviews). Testified in judicial and/or administrative proceedings. Provided oral case briefings to senior management. Conducted fraud awareness or other outreach briefings to agency employees or the general public. Presented cases to prosecutive entities. None of the above. 15 What type of experience do you have conducting search warrants? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience conducting search warrants. I have been trained to conduct search warrants but have not conducted one. I have conducted search warrants as part of a team. I have served as case agent conducting search warrants and have written search warrant affidavits. I have supervised an investigative team that conducts search warrants. I have supervised the service of multiple, simultaneous search warrant teams. 16 Which of the following BEST describes your experience writing affidavits complaints? Answer to this question is required I have not written, cleared, or approved affidavits / complaints for criminal investigations. I have written affidavits / complaints. I have written and cleared affidavits / complaints. I have written, cleared, and approved affidavits / complaints at the unit or office level. I have written, cleared, and approved affidavits / complaints at a regional level. I have supervised a program of criminal investigations on a nationwide basis in which criminal investigators and supervisors are regularly writing, clearing, and approving affidavits / complaints. 17 What type of experience do you have executing arrest warrants? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience executing arrest warrants. I have been trained to execute arrest warrants but have not executed one. I have executed arrest warrants as part of a team. I have served as case agent executing arrest warrants and have written arrest warrant affidavits. I have supervised an investigative team that executes arrest warrants. I have supervised the service of multiple, simultaneous arrest teams. 18 From the list of investigative writings below, select those that you have personally drafted. Answer to this question is required Interview write up Prosecutorial summary Report of Investigation Memo of conversation / Note to file / spot report Affidavit in support of criminal complaint Affidavit in support of a search warrant Article for trade publication Tactical plan Investigative plan None of the above 19 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community? Answer to this question is required I have no experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community. I have established liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community with guidance from a supervisor. I have some experience independently establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community. I have routinely and independently established liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community as a regular part of my job. I am highly skilled at establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community, having trained others in this activity and or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 20 Which of the following protective security training courses have you successfully completed? Answer to this question is required Organization of a Protective Detail Protective Services Formations and Standard Operating Procedures Protective Security Advances Driver training Vehicle Dynamics Evasive Maneuvers Armored Vehicle Dynamics Basic Motorcade Operations Radio Procedures Counter-measures Emergency Medical Training Firearms Defensive Tactics Land Navigation None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.