Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1)&nbsp;Scheduling and managing reservations for tours or events using a computerized system; (2)&nbsp;Performing administrative support duties, such as data entry, maintaining records, preparing reports, or tracking inventory; (3)&nbsp;Coordinating group logistics to support smooth visitor flow within a specific timeframe; and (4) Communicating effectively with customers and external stakeholders by answering questions and resolving service issues. 2 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g. percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables/informatics Developed spreadsheets Identified missing information None of the above 3 Which of the following problem solving methods have you performed independently? Answer to this question is required Identified relevant and important information Synthesized data from multiple sources Generated solution ideas Weighed alternative options Developed recommendations Made final decisions None of the above 4 Which operational problems do you have experience resolving? Answer to this question is required Customer accommodation or accessibility concerns Running behind schedule (e.g., interactions with customers taking too long) Equipment malfunctions (e.g., computerized systems, stations) Customers seeking a product or service that is no longer available Customers who request products or services outside of policy None of the above 5 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience gathering and organizing information. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience gathering or organizing information. I have gathered and organized information in an academic role (e.g., to complete assignments, write papers), but have not applied this skill in my professional work. I have gathered and organized information to complete a professional research paper or briefing presentation. I have gathered and organized information to curate an exhibit, or make an informational/technical presentation. I have reviewed and prioritized information I gathered to create a standard presentation delivered by others (e.g., tour script) in a professional setting. 6 Which of the following activities have you performed to ensure the accuracy of information? Answer to this question is required Fact-checked materials Performed research to update materials Proof-read materials Gathered information to create new materials None of the above 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience communicating information to others (e.g., customers) verbally. Answer to this question is required I adhered to a standard script to provide informational announcements. I delivered informational presentations on standardized topics in a format and style of my choosing. I customized standardized presentation topics by including information such as points of interest, details, jokes, or interactive content. I developed original presentations based on my own or other`s research. None of the above. 8 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by explaining policy to customers. I offered customers alternative solutions within policy limitations to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 9 Which customer service roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Call center representative Hotel concierge or desk clerk Information booth Museum docent Usher at an arena event (e.g., sporting events, concerts) Tour guide Travel guide Retail associate (e.g., cashier) Personal shopper or salesperson Restaurant host or server Group Coordinator None of the above 10 Which activities have you performed to provide service to customers or visitors? Answer to this question is required Orienting visitors to the location, facility, or amenities Leading a guided tour Providing basic information about services (e.g., hours of operation, directions to location) Requesting compliance with unpopular or unwelcome policies (e.g., no food in facility, cell phones off) Providing information about other related attractions or amenities Explaining the significance of policies Explaining delays or changes in plans Advising customers or visitors of estimated wait time Assisting customers seeking a specific item or information None of the above 11 Which computer applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft PowerPoint Adobe Acrobat Professional SharePoint None of the above 12 Which features of Microsoft Excel have you applied on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required Entered data Formatted cells Assigned formulas Created spreadsheets Inserted tables Inserted graphics Linked multiple spreadsheets None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.