Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 How do you meet the basic qualifications for this position? Answer to this question is required I have a degree in horticulture; or a related discipline of basic plant science that included at least 30 semester hours in the basic plant sciences, of which at least 16 semester hours were in horticultural subjects such as those dealing with the breeding, care, management, production, and post harvest handling of horticultural crops. I have the combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in horticulture or a related discipline of basic plant science that included course work as shown in item one above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not have the education, or a combination of education and experience listed above. 2 Which of the following types of gardens/landscapes do you have experience maintaining in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Natural gardens with a majority of native plants. Formal gardens containing sheared hedges and intricate planting arrangements. Plantings and beds in golf courses, shopping centers, apartments, or office complexes. Theme gardens such as Japanese, topiary, rose, rooftop, or aquatic gardens. Park district plantings or community parks. Vegetable gardens and/or community plots. I have no experience maintaining gardens/landscapes in a professional capacity. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your plant display experience? Answer to this question is required I have designed and installed large and complex plant displays in an area over 1000 sq ft. I have designed and installed complex plant displays in an area under 1000 sq ft. I have installed plant displays using an established design. I assisted others with installing plant displays. I have no experience designing or installing plants displays. 4 Which of the following have you used in landscape management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Trucks. Tractors. Rototillers. Sprayers. Hand tools. None of the above. 5 Do you have skill in maintaining database of information in the areas of procurement, budget, labor and equipment resources in renovating or improving landscape exhibits? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following areas have you managed horticulture operations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required A public zoological park. A public park. A greenhouse. A private estate. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience performing managerial functions relative to a team of support staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience managing staff by creating work plans and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating work of subordinates including development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience providing counseling to employees on performance matters including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counselings. I have experience interviewing and appointing candidates for vacancies. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.