Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have a high school diploma/G.E.D. and at least one (1) year of clerical experience. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you able to lift 50 pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which software programs do you have experience using in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft PowerPoint Outlook Case Management Systems None of the above 4 Select the response that most accurately reflects your experience in managing multiple projects. Answer to this question is required I have set priorities and made adjustments to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on single (and sequential) projects under my control. I have set priorities and made adjustments to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on multiple (and simultaneous) projects under my control. I have set priorities and made adjustments for other employees (e.g., on teams I have led, units I have formally managed, etc.) to meet delivery schedules and deadlines on multiple (and simultaneous) projects under my responsibility. None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to make decisions independently? Answer to this question is required I make only simple and routine decisions. I refer complex issues to a supervisor. I am responsible for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I independently analyze problems or situations and consider the impact of court procedures and management preferences before providing solutions. 6 Which response best represents your experience setting priorities? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in setting priorities. I have education and/or training in setting priorities but I have not had to do so at work. I have experience setting priorities for my own work under supervision. I routinely prioritize my own work without supervision. I routinely prioritize my work and the work of others. I routinely provide training to others in establishing priorities. 7 Select the responses that best describe your level of experience providing customer service in a professional environment? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience providing customer service in a professional environment. I have provided customer service in a legal environment, court or community service agency. I have been trained on providing customer service but have not performed this activity on the job. I have identified customer needs and provided service that adhered to quality standards in defined situations. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).