Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to Grade 09 in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in safety or occupational health fields (safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene), or degree in other related fields as described in the announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education. I do NOT have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following best describes in what setting(s) you received training, education or experience in the safety and health program. Answer to this question is required Zoological parks and/or petting zoo Industrial/Manufacturing Law enforcement Agriculture/Forestry Transportation Construction Fishing Government facilities None of the above 3 Select the answer which demonstrates your knowledge of the process for auditing laboratory, industrial and office areas as required by the OSHA, EPA and/or NRC regulations. Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team of specialists responsible for auditing health and safety, environmental and/or radiological programs. I have experience as a senior team member responsible for conducting health, safety, environmental and/or radiological audits. I have experience as a team member on health, safety, environmental and/or radiological audits. I have experience independently for auditing health and safety, environmental and/or radiological programs. I do not have experience in this area. 4 Select the answer which demonstrates your knowledge of environmental, safety and occupational health principles and practices in order to conduct inspections/surveys in potentially hazardous areas. Answer to this question is required I have led environmental, health and safety inspections in industrial environments such as laboratories and construction sites or outdoor and indoor complex facilities open to the public. I have participated as a team member in environmental, health and safety inspections in laboratory or industrial settings or outdoor and indoor facilities open to the public. I have conducted environmental, health and safety inspections in primarily office settings. I do not have experience in this area. 5 Which of the following work environments do you have experience managing safety programs in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Historic House or Site Library or Archive Conservation Laboratory Museum Zoo or similar holding of non-domestic animals Arboretum, Botanic Garden or other Horticultural site Park or outdoor recreation area Performing Arts or similar public space Office Retail Food Service Construction Warehouse Laboratory Manufacturing Machine or Cabinet Shop Agriculture Hospital School None of the above 6 Select the answer which demonstrates your knowledge of the principles and practices of occupational safety and health in the application of safe work practices for reducing traumatic injuries. Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team responsible for determining the cause and developing interventions for reducing traumatic injuries, illnesses and hazardous exposure s at the national level or across multiple worksites. I have experience leading the development of a comprehensive safety and health plan and/or training program for a company or worksite. I have experience implementing a worker safety and health program or training program as a team member. I do not have experience in this area. 7 Select the answer(s) that demonstrate your experience performing that following tasks. Answer to this question is required I have inspected facilities to comply with Occupational Safety and Health Administration and National Fire Protection Association regulations. I have interpreted and applied a variety of safety and occupational health regulations to the workplace. I have interpreted architectural engineering drawings to assure that designs meet National Fire Protection Association regulations. I have not performed any of these tasks. 8 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience with safety and occupational health concepts and principles to develop courses of action to resolve safety and health problems? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team of specialists conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a senior specialist conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a team member conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a building/office environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a museum or cultural facility. I have experience with physical ergonomic issues in the workplace. I do not have any experience in this area. 9 Select the answer which demonstrates your knowledge of occupational safety and health practices for the reduction of traumatic occupational injuries. Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team of specialists conducting research into determine the underlying causes and develop preventive techniques for the prevention of traumatic injuries in the work place. This experience included collaborating with others in planning, implementing and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a senior specialist conducting research into determining the underlying causes and develop preventive techniques for the prevention of traumatic injuries in the work place. This experience included collaborating with others in planning, implementing and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a team member conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in the work place. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in an office/building environment. I do not have any experience in this area. 10 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have specialized experience (Federal or other) performing the following duties: conducting safety inspections to identify hazards, investigating mishaps, interviewing employees and supervisors about safety and occupational health issues, preparing reports of findings and recommendations, and performing other safety and occupational health assignments. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 11 Select the answer which best describes your abilities in conducting investigations of safety and health mishaps. Answer to this question is required I have led investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have participated as a team member in investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated regular accidents, or minor safety and health incidents. I have led or participated in investigations of minor safety and health incidents. I do not have any experience in this area. 12 Select the answer which best describes the most complex safety and technical documents you have prepared. Answer to this question is required I have prepared a technical report or peer-reviewed manuscript that provided a comprehensive description of a specific health and safety hazard and associated prevention strategies, with citations of reference literature and standards. I have prepared a comprehensive safety and health plan or training program for a company, office or worksite. I have prepared safety and health fact sheets. I have training or education in preparing safety documents, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have any experience in this area. 13 Which of the following reflects your experience in creating training resources for staff and visitors choose all that apply? Answer to this question is required I have independently written laboratory safety plans. I have assisted with writing laboratory safety plans. I have independently written training materials and guides. I have assisted with writing training materials and guides. I have written web applications and presentations on safety. I have developed PowerPoint presentations on safety. I have no experience in this area. 14 Which of the following museum collections dangers do you have experience managing safety programs for? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Dangers posed by size of collection objects Dangers posed by moving parts of collection objects or displays Dangers posed by collections stored in alcohol Dangers posed by collections preserved with toxic chemicals Dangers posed by live collections such as domestic animals Dangers posed by bio hazards Dangers posed by chemical inventory and storage Dangers posed by collections of weapons, munitions or explosives Dangers posed by water-based collections or location (aquariums, maritime museums) None of the above 15 Select the answer which demonstrates your knowledge of industrial practices, methods, techniques used to develop safety and health surveillance programs. Answer to this question is required I have experience developing and managing a variety of health surveillance programs such as hearing conservation, radiation safety, and hazardous materials exposure. I have experience administering a variety of health surveillance programs such as hearing conservation, radiation safety, and hazardous materials exposure. I do not have any experience in this area. 16 Which of the following statements best demonstrate your knowledge of safety and occupational health concepts and principles to develop courses of action to resolve safety and health problems? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team of specialists conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a senior specialist conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a team member conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a building/office environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a museum or cultural facility. I have experience with physical ergonomic issues in the workplace. I do not have any experience in this area. 17 Select the answer which demonstrates your knowledge of occupational injury and illness statistical data, use of the data in occupational risk assessment and familiarity with statistics on accidents, injuries and related data. Answer to this question is required I have experience researching and using occupational injury databases for statistical analysis and risk assessment. I do not have any experience in this area. 18 Please choose which best describes your experience communicating information in written format (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have provided written reports of findings/solutions. I have written official directives, instructions and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written health and safety plans for worksites at government buildings/facilities. I have written health and safety plans for worksites, operating environmental monitoring instruments to detect airborne contaminants, and determined the level of personal protective gear required. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 19 Do you have experience performing analysis to identify patterns and trends using spread sheet or database software such as Microsoft Excel or Access? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Do you have experience researching and gathering occupational injury and illness statistical data to perform occupational risk assessments? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.