Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan.&nbsp; Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Performance Improvement Coordinators are required to orally convey technical and non-technical program information to their supervisors, co-workers, inmates, central office and regional office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding the quality improvement operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conveyed technical or administrative information with individuals in the organization and the general public, such as give oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group or committee; and/or I have participated as a team to provide information; and/or I have relayed pertinent medical information and patient history from staff healthcare providers to community hospital staff. I have exchanged technical administrative or investigative information with individuals in the organization and the general public; and/or I have exchanged technical administrative information with staff healthcare professionals and community hospitals; and/or I have answered questions from the general public, following Freedom of Information Act, Privacy Act, and Bureau policy. I have briefed supervisor or Department Head about work progress and assignment statuses; and/or I have explained general regulations or basic technical procedures to the general public or other employees; and/or I have conveyed basic technical information, such as answering routine questions from staff about performance improvement activities. None of the above. 4 Performance Improvement Coordinators must prepare and submit monthly and annual reports, write memorandums to management, etc. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, they must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have proofread documents for supervisor, correcting typing, format and grammar errors before routing; and/or I have transcribed complex documents, such as committee meeting minutes, in the correct format with no grammatical or typing errors; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence from instruction. I have reviewed written work of lower level coworkers for grammar, content and format; and/or I have written memorandums and letters for supervisor?s signature with only vague verbal instructions; and/or I have written technical reports and correspondence that summarized performance data, including trends; and/or I have developed and written internal office procedures. I have researched department's needs and written draft monthly reports for submission to CEO; and/or I have prepared non-routine letters, memorandums, and reports; and/or I have generated routine memorandums, such as weekly status reports and submitted them to the supervisor without prompting or instructions. None of the above. 5 Performance Improvement Coordinators must collect, analyze and interpret information relative to Quality Improvement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected data and information from existing databases before analyzing the trends and reporting them to the quality manager; and/or I have gathered information and completed routine reports, such as monthly indicator reports in a timely manner; and/or as directed, I have assisted the manager in reviewing data and analyzing current medical care trends. I have entered information into existing databases and schedules in a timely manner; and/or as directed, I have assisted in gathering information and completing routine reports, such as monthly indicator reports; and/or as directed, I have assisted in collecting data from existing files and databases. I have created a new database to collect and analyze data/information that allows quicker access to the information or track information in new ways that improve the efficiency of the department; and/or I have reviewed data and analyzed current medical care trends; and/or I have analyzed financial data and notified cost center manager of changes in spending trends as they arise. None of the above. 6 Performance Improvement Coordinators must interpret and apply Quality Improvement policies, procedures and guidelines while performing assignments dealing with quality improvement information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied Joint Commission (JC) standards to maintain readiness for JC surveys; and/or I have participated in tracers and mock surveys; and/or I have applied action plans to meet new standards. I have applied routine quality management policies and procedures while performing duties within the Health Services Unit; and/or I have assisted in tracer activities and mock surveys; and/or I have developed knowledge of action plan development to meet new standards. I have followed general instructions regarding Joint Commission standards; and/or I have developed an understanding of tracer activities and mock surveys; and/or I have developed a familiarization with action plan development to meet new standards. None of the above. 7 Performance Improvement Coordinators organize and maintain records and filing systems for quality improvement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and maintained record and filing systems; and/or I have created tracking systems to record when files are checked out (tracking systems may be hard copy or computerized); and/or I have established and maintained complex files. I have audited complex records, such as mortality health records, for completeness and for accuracy of filing order; and/or I have created a new filing system or database that allows quicker access to information in files; and/or I have organized and maintained concise indicator records in a manner which allowed the information to be easily retrieved; and/or I have established, organized and maintained record and filing systems. I have tracked individual files removed from the system using a log book or computer tracking system; and/or I have audited credit card statements for accuracy and resolved discrepancies before filing; and/or I have maintained mortality review files, adding topics/files as needed. None of the above. 8 Performance Improvement Coordinators must be skilled in using personal computers and common office equipment to effectively perform the assigned duties within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have set or reset date and time on office equipment, such as facsimile machine; and/or I have re-sorted patient data in existing spreadsheet database to analyze trends; and/or I have troubleshot and solved minor problems with a copy machine, such as paper jams; and/or I have experience using advanced editing features and tools when using word processing programs, such as WordPerfect. I have keyed department's financial data into existing spreadsheet database; and/or I have replaced toner, replaced paper and performed routine user maintenance for copy machines and facsimile machines; and/or I have used dictation machine to type meeting minutes. I have used Access, QuatroPro or other spreadsheet program to create new databases to track performance indicators for the department; and/or I have used WordPerfect, another word processing program or Adobe to create a form to be used by other staff; and/or I have programmed frequently dialed numbers into a facsimile machine. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan.&nbsp; Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Performance Improvement Coordinators are required to orally convey technical and non-technical program information to their supervisors, co-workers, inmates, central office and regional office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding the quality improvement operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exchanged technical administrative or investigative information with individuals in the organization and the general public; and/or I have exchanged technical administrative information with staff healthcare professionals and community hospitals; and/or I have answered questions from the general public, following Freedom of Information Act, Privacy Act, and Bureau policy. I have communicated with regional and Central Office staff regarding quality care and improvement activities; and/or I have provided training/instruction to staff regarding quality improvement issues; and/or I have communicated quality improvement trends with Quality Improvement Manager. I have conveyed technical or administrative information with individuals in the organization and the general public, such as giving oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group or committee; and/or I have participated as a team to provide information; and/or I have relayed pertinent medical information and patient history from staff healthcare providers to community hospital staff. None of the above. 4 Performance Improvement Coordinators must prepare and submit monthly and annual reports, write memorandums to management, etc. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, they must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched department's needs and written draft monthly reports for submission to CEO; and/or I have prepared non-routine letters, memorandums, and reports; and/or I have generated routine memorandums, such as weekly status reports and submitted them to the supervisor without prompting or instructions. I have reviewed written work of lower level coworkers for grammar, content and format; and/or I have written memorandums and letters for your supervisor's signature with only vague verbal instructions; and/or I have written technical reports and correspondence that summarize performance data, including trends; and/or I have developed and written internal office procedures. I have developed annual performance improvement plan; and/or I have developed reports (monthly/annual) based upon data collection; and/or I have prepared and submitted mortality review reports. None of the above. 5 Performance Improvement Coordinators must collect, analyze and interpret information relative to Quality Improvement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected data and information from existing databases before analyzing the trends and reporting them to the quality manager; and/or I have gathered information and completed routine reports, such as monthly indicator reports in a timely manner; and/or as directed, I have assisted the manager in reviewing data and analyzing current medical care trends. I have created a new database to collect and analyze data/information that allows quicker access to the information or track information in new ways that improve the efficiency of the department; and/or I have reviewed data and analyzed current medical care trends; and/or I have analyzed financial data and notified cost center manager of changes in spending trends as they arise. I have conducted audits and gathered data for performance improvement activities; and/or I have interpreted data and developed trend analysis reports; and/or I have analyzed data and informed Quality Improvement Manager of high risk areas. None of the above. 6 Performance Improvement Coordinators must interpret and apply Quality Improvement policies, procedures and guidelines while performing assignments dealing with quality improvement information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied Joint Commission (JC) standards to maintain readiness for JC surveys; and/or I have participated in tracers and mock surveys; and/or I have applied action plans to meet new standards. I have interpreted Joint Commission (JC) standards and maintained readiness for JC surveys; and/or I have conducted, as lead surveyor, mock survey in preparation for JC survey; and/or I have assisted department head with development of action plans to meet new standards (ACA, Program Review, or Joint Commission). I have applied routine quality management policies and procedures while performing duties within the Health Services Unit; and/or I have assisted in tracer activities and mock surveys; and/or I have developed knowledge of action plan development to meet new standards. None of the above. 7 Performance Improvement Coordinators organize and maintain records and filing systems for quality improvement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have audited complex records, such as mortality health records, for completeness and for accuracy of filing order; and/or I have created a new filing system or database that allows quicker access to information in files; and/or I have organized and maintained concise indicator records in a manner which allowed the information to be easily retrieved; and/or I have established, organized and maintained record and filing systems. I have organized and maintained all files and databases associated with quality improvement activities; and/or I have developed a quality improvement database that enhanced the data collection process; and/or I have developed systems for credential verification processing. I have organized and maintained record and filing systems; and/or I have created tracking systems to record when files are checked out (tracking systems may be hard copy or computerized); and/or I have established and maintained complex files. None of the above. 8 Performance Improvement Coordinators must be skilled in using personal computers and common office equipment to effectively perform the assigned duties within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have set or reset date and time on office equipment, such as facsimile machine; and/or I have re-sorted patient data in existing spreadsheet database to analyze trends; and/or I have troubleshot and solved minor problems with a copy machine, such as paper jams; and/or I have experience using advanced editing features and tools when using word processing programs, such as WordPerfect. I have developed enhanced monthly/annual reports using data collected for presentation to Regional/Central Office personnel; and/or I have compiled data via WordPerfect/other format to enhance the day to day operation of the department; and/or I have collected and reported national performance measures into national database as required by policy. I have used Access, QuatroPro or other spreadsheet program to create new databases to track performance indicators for the department; and/or I have used WordPerfect, another word processing program or Adobe to create a form to be used by other staff; and/or I have programmed frequently dialed numbers into a facsimile machine. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).