Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 Telecommunications Specialists must communicate with individuals within and outside the organization. Internal contacts include but are not limited to all institutional personnel, inmates, and Regional and Central Office personnel. External contacts include representatives from local utilities, contractors, vendors, engineers, and members of the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in department meetings in a non-technical nature; and/or I have responded to routine questions of a non-technical nature; and/or I have assisted in facilitating a presentation to co-workers on telecommunications related topics. I have submitted work status reports, apprised supervisor of progress of assignment; and/or I have relayed points of interest to group; and/or I have provided assistance and/or direction to staff at the regional/corporate office and/or institutions/local office. I have presented information on the merits of a new system during internal meetings; and/or I have provided advice/guidance to non-technical personnel on the operation of telecommunications; and/or I have coordinated and facilitated meetings/briefings with mid-level management, contractors and vendors to resolve issues encountered. None of the above. 3.2 Telecommunications Specialists initiate and submit reports for usage within and outside the organization in accordance with Bureau of Prisons and national policy. They are responsible for developing Statements of Work for procurement of electronic or communication systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written informal reports on status of projects; and/or I have prepared a proposal for a non-technical project; and/or I have responded to basic, recurring inquiries received relative to telecommunications projects/procedures. I have prepared and submitted weekly summary reports for mid-level management; and/or I have prepared general memorandums to explain established procedures for internal use; and/or I have responded to e-mail inquiries received requesting telecommunications related information. I have prepared technical status reports for high level management (i.e., annual equipment reports, project status reports on security system upgrade projects); and/or I have developed a Statement of Work for technical projects; and/or I have prepared technical instructions (internal operating procedures, Standard Operating Procedures, Institutional Supplements, etc.) for use by co-workers/peers; and/or I have written an internal article for publication in a internal newsletter, etc. None of the above. 3.3 Telecommunications Specialists are responsible for serving as technical evaluation team members during the procurement of communications systems, and therefore, must have knowledge of methods used by contracting to establish a contract and resolve discrepancies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a contracting officers technicial/performed contract oversight responsibilities for the procurement/renewal of established systems/services; and/or I have developed contract documents which resulted in the procurement of systems or services; and/or I have evaluated and reported on vender proposals for thoroughness, accuracy, and compliance with the respective Statement of Work or technical specifications. I have monitored standard contracts and reported concerns to contracting staff for action; and/or I have provided assistance in procurement actions; and/or I have assisted in preparing written procurement/inspection reports for contracting files. I have assisted a contracting officer technical respresentative/contract oversight specialist on a communication or electronics system procurement and/or inspection; and/or I have prepared written procurement and/or inspection reports; and/or I have assisted with the development of a Statement of Work and/or other contract-related documents. None of the above. 3.4 Telecommunications Specialists must apply their knowledge of theory and principles of electronics to duties involved in the management, installation, maintenance, modification, trouble diagnosis, and subsequent repair of a wide variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and communication equipment and systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have attended one or more seminars on specific electronics equipment to maintain currency on procedures; and/or I have performed basic troubleshooting techniques on consumer electronics (appliances, radio/television, DVD/VCR players); and/or I have completed a nationally recognized home study course on electronics theory/principles. I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronic systems, such as alarms, master antennae systems, CCTV systems, camera systems; and/or I have performed routine electronic functions (i.e. replaced and/or changed defective printed circuit personal computer boards, etc.); and/or I completed a Vocational training course in basic electronics; and/or I have completed a manufacturer's required training course that did not result in or require certification. I possess advanced certifications in more than one related electronics course (i.e., manufactures training on radio systems, Fire Alarm systems, programming logic controller systems; and/or I have performed diagnostics and planned maintenance on electronics systems; and/or I analyzed, revised and created new operating procedure plans for communication systems and network. None of the above. 3.5 Telecommunications Specialists work with vendors in the telecommunication field in procuring an maintaining services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted seasoned telecommunications specialists in coordinating the installation of standard or basic services; and/or I have maintained point of reference system (manuals, technical journals, etc.) to reference while completing tasks; and/or I have utilized established checklists to ensure all tasks are completed in compliance with governing regulations. I have planned an implementation schedule for higher level approval utilizing various telecommunications laws and regulations as points of reference; and/or I have prepared documents to procure telecommunications services such a CATV (Cable Television) for commercial use, the installation of voice and data circuits and applications for RF (Radio Frequencies) in compliance with governing laws and regulations. I have investigated/resolved billing issues with telecommunication vendors; and/or I have coordinated the installation of standard services; and/or I have completed a training session regarding operations of telecommunications equipment or system. I have installed and maintained telecommunication systems in accordance with the laws and regulations governing telecommunication systems. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).