Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree which includes or is supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education and special education teaching requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational and course work requirement. 3 In addition, applicants applying for special education teaching positions MUST have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in special education that included at least one course covering the teaching of exceptional students and courses in the appropriate field(s) of specialization. Do you meet the requirements for a special education teaching position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Special Education Teacher develops and modifies curricula to meet the various learning needs of students. He/she uses their knowledge of curriculum design to develop courses appropriate for adult learners. He/she may modify curriculum by creating supplemental activities and assessing student progress. He/she may also teach in multiple program areas, and therefore, develop lessons using interactive audiovisual aids, group discussion, and computer-assisted instruction with modifications for a variety of students. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and implemented course objectives for a variety of courses; and or I have developed assessment tools; and or I have developed and organized curriculum content; and or I have used a variety of learning strategies. I have modified course objectives; and or I have administered entrance assessment tools; and or I have used course material developed/modified by others. I have independently developed and implemented basic course objectives; and or I have implemented assessment tools; and or I have created supplemental activities for modified curriculum; and or I have tailored course materials to meet modified curriculum; and or I have identified learning strategies and materials. None of the above. 5 Special Education Teacher plans and conducts an educational program based on the assessment data of students, knowledge of teaching strategies, learning styles, and student interests. Lessons address the unique needs of the students and progress is regularly documented. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted assessment data; and or I have developed a portion of an education program; and or I have monitored education program progress. I have assisted the development of lesson plans with supplemental activities; and or I have identified the remedial needs and interests of the students; and or I have documented student progress through reports and re-testing; and or I have modified curriculum based on student remedial needs. I have instructed others in conducting assessments; and or I have developed education program using a variety of strategies; and or I have led other professionals in developing lessons addressing different instructional needs; and or I have instructed others in identifying student strengths and weaknesses. None of the above. 6 Special Education Teacher utilizes a variety of assessment measures to develop effective education plans for their students. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected, administered, and scored informal diagnostic tests for specific classes; and or I have reviewed assessment results; and or I have with assistance from others, developed a variety of appropriate remedial strategies for own use; and or I have assessed progress using formal and informal measures. I have administered and scored formal and informal diagnostic tests for a variety of classes and levels; and or I have interpreted assessment results for other professionals; and or I have independently developed a variety of appropriate remedial strategies for other professionals; and or I have provided expertise to other professionals to evaluate student progress. I have assisted with the administration and scoring of formal and informal diagnostic tests; and or I have assisted with the development of remedial strategies; and or I have assisted in assessing the progress with retesting using formal assessment measures. None of the above. 7 Special Education Teacher provides instruction to a variety of individuals from various backgrounds. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used curriculum developed by others, instructed students from various backgrounds; and or I have encouraged open discussions with students of various cultures/backgrounds in a classroom setting; and or I have used existing supplemental activities developed by others to integrate various content and perspectives. I have developed curriculum appropriate for students of varying backgrounds; and or I have developed supplemental activities in order to integrate varying content and perspective; and or I have independently developed and tailored motivational techniques for different student populations. I have provided instructor-skills training to teach others regarding teaching students of different backgrounds; and or I have demonstrated how to develop curriculum and supplemental activities to integrate varying content and perspectives; and or I have taught ways to develop communication skills in dealing with students from different backgrounds; and or I have developed and taught motivational techniques to encourage students to explore and explain their unique backgrounds. None of the above. 8 Special Education Teacher possesses knowledge of special education theories, identification procedures, assessment, placement and individualized instruction for students with special learning needs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed extensive learning theories related to students with special learning needs; and or I have developed procedures for identifying students with learning problems; and or I have reviewed individualized diagnostic instruments such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement and other instruments for students; and or I have assisted a psychologist or treatment team to recommend appropriate placements for students. I have applied theories about learning disabilities, developmental delays, emotional disturbance, and health and physical impairments to real classroom situations; and or I have developed school system/district-wide procedures for identifying students with learning problems; and or I have selected, administered and interpreted individualized diagnostic instruments such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement, the Diagnostic Assessment of Reading (DAR) or other instruments; and or I have worked in conjunction with psychologist(s) or treatment teams to recommend appropriate placements to other teachers; and or I have developed individualized instruction for students based upon assessment results for use by others. I have developed classroom procedures to identify students with learning problems; and or I have assisted with the administration and interpretation of individualized diagnostic instruments, such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement, and other instruments; and or I have recommended an individualized education program based upon assessment results. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).