Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to communicate in English and at least one indigenous African language (e.g., Swahili, Wolof, Yoruba, etc.); proficiency in French is highly desirable.** Read, understand, and use English, French (highly desirable), and at least one indigenous African language in order to provide research services to individuals both within and outside the organization Answer to this question is required Extensive experience reading and communicating in English, French (highly desirable), and at least one indigenous African language in a professional context (e.g., through publications and presentations). Some experience reading and using English, French (highly desirable), and at least one indigenous African language in a professional environment. For example, completed coursework and training at the college or graduate level or equivalent experience to provide research services. Ability to read and/or use English, French (highly desirable), and at least one indigenous African language in a professional setting. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of African countries.** Applied knowledge of history, culture, politics, and literature of African countries to provide reference &lrm;services, evaluate and develop collections, and/or other professional experience. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of African countries by providing reference and/or research services, evaluating, AND developing collections requiring knowledge of African languages and dialects collections. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of African countries by providing reference and/or research services requiring knowledge of African languages and dialects collections. Demonstrated knowledge of the history, culture, politics, and literature of African countries in a professional setting or through collegiate or graduate level coursework pertaining to languages and dialects spoken in African countries. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Led, supervised, and managed a diverse staff and in so doing, performed the following activities: 1) recruited and hired staff; 2) communicated performance expectations; 3) conducted periodic performance evaluations; 4) provided advice and counsel; 5) addressed performance and disciplinary issues; 6) planned and assigned work; 7) provided appropriate training and professional development opportunities; 8) encouraged staff participation in planning and decision making; and 9) identified and implemented methods to improve staff productivity. At least five years of relevant experience is highly desirable. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the supervisory functions listed above. Performed EIGHT (8) of the supervisory functions listed above. Performed SEVEN (7) of the supervisory functions listed above. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge and application of the principles, concepts, and techniques of Library and Information Science.** Applied professional knowledge of library and information management principles, concepts, and techniques to manage functions and implement programs related to reference services, acquisitions, cataloging, or collection development Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a broad range of a major agency and/or library systems environment’s functions and programs. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute one or more major functions or programs in a library systems environment. Demonstrated basic or a general knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of library and information science to execute a library program. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to provide public programs outreach and consultation and liaison services. Planned and produced public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals such as: 1) librarians, 2) authors, 3) editors, 4) publishers, and 5) scholars and teachers to share resources and information on the political, social, cultural and scientific trends in the region. Answer to this question is required As the principal liaison for an agency, organization or cultural institution, independently planned and produced public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Developed and maintained professional relationships with ALL of the above individuals to share information and resources. Played a key role in planning and producing public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Maintained professional relationships with ALL of the above individuals to share information and resources. As part of a team, assisted in planning and producing public programs, exhibits, seminars, and colloquia on the region to bring attention to research developments and collections of interest to both scholars and the general public. Maintained professional relationships with individuals internal to an agency, organization or cultural institution to share information and resources. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products related to library services. Examples include: (1) policies and procedures, (2) planning documents, (3) reports, (4) memoranda and external correspondence, (5) analyses, (6) technical proposals, (7) statistical reports, (8) project execution requirements, 9) guidelines on information and research requests, 10) performance appraisals, and 11) original research. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote at least SEVEN (7) of the above documents. As a principal author, independently wrote at least FIVE (5) of the above documents. As principal author, independently wrote at least THREE (3) of the above documents. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).