Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 3 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: 1.) Serving as the technical and business manager of major projects, from the preliminary planning stage through the design and construction phases; 2.) Performing project management and monitoring for new construction, renovations, and improvements to facilities; 3.) Performing pre-award, post-award, and post-contract activities; 4.) Coordinating and overseeing assigned project work elements in the project contract. 4 Which outcomes have you achieved when resolving problems? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency and/or productivity The development and implementation of a new policy A cost-savings Complying with codes while maintaining client goals Improved customer satisfaction None of the above 5 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 6 Which of the following have you communicated to customers as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Updated management on the project status Provided recommendations for the readjustment of funds, schedules and tasks associated with the project Communicated with local and Federal agencies to ensure that construction operations are in compliance with safety and environmental regulations and standards Provided technical guidance to lower level employees on technical matters None of the above 7 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required I have written summaries or oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail for documentation purposes) I have written reports for completed projects I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products I have created informational or decision papers for Senior Management. None of the above 8 What project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding/ budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 9 In what stages of a project have you participated in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project initiation, development, and planning Project kickoff Pre-design / Program of Requirements Archival Research and historic record reviews Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents Construction administration Construction management None of the Above 10 Which certifications, registrations, coursework or degrees do you hold? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required A Registered Architect (RA) certification A Professional Engineering (PE) certification A Historic Preservation degree (Bachelors, Masters, or PhD) Historic Preservation course work A Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) A Certified Construction Manager (CCM) A leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification A Project Management Professional (PMP) certification Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) certification None of the above 11 Select the types of teams you have led to accomplish team goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Multi-discipline teams Teams composed of individuals with varying levels of skill Multi-level teams (e.g., subordinates, peers, and supervisors) Multi-organizational teams None of the above 12 Choose the response that best reflects your experience managing a program or project on a facility that has multiple buildings? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing a program on a facility that has multiple buildings. I have experience managing a project on a facility that has multiple buildings. I have experience managing both a program and project on a facility that has multiple buildings. I do not have any experience managing a program or project on a facility that has multiple buildings. 13 Choose the response that best reflects your experience managing a program or project that is in an occupied building? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing a program that is in an occupied building. I have experience managing a project that is in an occupied building. I have experience managing both a program and project that is in an occupied building. I do not have any experience managing a program or project that is in an occupied building. 14 Do you have experience working on a building that requires historic preservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for Congressional approval Justified budget expenses Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions Completed a project within budget limitations Justified the use of Project Funded Staff to support a project None of the above 16 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to program management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 17 Which statement best describes your experience preparing technical evaluations of contractor proposals, recommending a pre-negotiation position for contracts, and assisting with contract negotiations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Which contracting duties have you performed on a regular and recurring basis as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Managing government contracts in support of communications activities Preparing solicitation documents Serving as a Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) Serving as a contract administrator for management of deliverables and invoices Providing oversite and guidance to people managing contracts None of the above 19 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering a project? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected Officials and their staff Local agencies Federal agencies External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customer and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 21 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.