Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [14198] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge or experience with project and contract management. Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience in this area. I have an understanding of the concepts, principles and processes gained from education or and/or training. I have applied the concepts, principles and processes. I have extensive experience with project and contract management. 3 [57756] Select the statement below that best describes your experience managing facilities services staff and programs. Answer to this question is required I have directly supervised the operations of a leased or owned facility. I have led a team which is responsible for the operations of a leased or owned facility. I am responsible for the function of facility operations for my organization. I have served as liaison with an organization that provided facility operations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best reflects your level of experience drawing conclusions based on an analysis of information? Answer to this question is required I have no experience identifying the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. I have identified the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems under close supervision. I have participated on a team that was responsible for identifying the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. I have independently identified the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. I have led others charged with identifying the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. 5 [3783] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of and experience with budget management and program oversight. Answer to this question is required I have limited knowledge of and experience with budget management and program oversight. I have general experience in the various aspects of budget management and program oversight. I have demonstrated knowledge of and experience with budget management and program oversight and have managed or overseen programs. I am considered to be a technical authority in various aspects of budget management and have an in-depth understanding of the programs that I manage or oversee. I am able to independently plan and carry out the work to be done. None of the above 6 [9529] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in the areas of facility maintenance. Answer to this question is required Managing multi-year maintenance projects. Managing facilities inspections in accordance with established standards/goals. Ensuring facilities maintenance work is sensitive to concerns of employees and surrounding community, including environmental issues, comfort and safety of tenants with varying needs, and need for work to continue with minimal disruption. Overseeing the administration of construction and maintenance contracts. Dealing with conflicts and complex issues relating to maintenance operations. I have no experience in this area. 7 [7600] Have you had experience developing, implementing, and/or managing the utilization of a preventive maintenance program for one or more maintenance functions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [66209] Select the statement(s) below that describe(s) your experience communicating. Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating orally in an interpersonal setting. I have experience speaking publicly during team meetings. I have experience making presentations to small groups. I have experience briefing managers. I have experience making presentations to large audiences. I have experience interacting with executive level staff. I have experience speaking publicly for the purpose of communicating unfamiliar technical or abstract information. I have experience speaking publicly in stressful and/or adversarial situations. I have experience developing reports. And/or other forms of written communication which convey complex and unfamiliar technical information in a form readily understandable by a general audience. I have formal training and/or work experience in risk or crisis communications. I have experience in oral communication concerning programs or projects that seek to promote behavioral change on the part of a general audience or the public. I have experience in written communication concerning programs or projects that seek to promote behavioral change on the part of a general audience or the public. None of the above. 9 [67380] Select the statement(s) best describe(s) your experience with providing written and/or oral communication to technical experts, mid-level managers, or senior-level officials.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations that involved negotiating and defending complex issues on behalf of my organization. I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations involving communicating and explaining complex technical data, information, or procedures to others. (Examples of this experience include: conducting training seminars, conducting on-the-job training for other employees, or conducting explanatory briefings of technical data). I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations involving communicating routine non-complex information. I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations that do not involve presenting findings to technical experts, mid-level managers, or senior-level officals. I do not have experience with providing written and/or oral communication to technical experts, mid-level managers, or senior-level officials. 10 [5209] Choose the statement that best describes your level of experience in written communications. Answer to this question is required I have little to no on the job experience in creating written communication. I have prepared memoranda and brief letters. I have written memoranda, letters, and reports. I have written memoranda, letters, reports, and meeting minutes from multi-agency meetings. I have written memoranda, letters, reports, and meeting minutes from multi-agency meetings; and policies, procedures, and/or training materials. Grade: 13 1 [342] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [14198] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge or experience with project and contract management. Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience in this area. I have an understanding of the concepts, principles and processes gained from education or and/or training. I have applied the concepts, principles and processes. I have extensive experience with project and contract management. 3 [57756] Select the statement below that best describes your experience managing facilities services staff and programs. Answer to this question is required I have directly supervised the operations of a leased or owned facility. I have led a team which is responsible for the operations of a leased or owned facility. I am responsible for the function of facility operations for my organization. I have served as liaison with an organization that provided facility operations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best reflects your level of experience drawing conclusions based on an analysis of information? Answer to this question is required I have no experience identifying the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. I have identified the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems under close supervision. I have participated on a team that was responsible for identifying the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. I have independently identified the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. I have led others charged with identifying the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems. 5 [3783] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of and experience with budget management and program oversight. Answer to this question is required I have limited knowledge of and experience with budget management and program oversight. I have general experience in the various aspects of budget management and program oversight. I have demonstrated knowledge of and experience with budget management and program oversight and have managed or overseen programs. I am considered to be a technical authority in various aspects of budget management and have an in-depth understanding of the programs that I manage or oversee. I am able to independently plan and carry out the work to be done. None of the above 6 [9529] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in the areas of facility maintenance. Answer to this question is required Managing multi-year maintenance projects. Managing facilities inspections in accordance with established standards/goals. Ensuring facilities maintenance work is sensitive to concerns of employees and surrounding community, including environmental issues, comfort and safety of tenants with varying needs, and need for work to continue with minimal disruption. Overseeing the administration of construction and maintenance contracts. Dealing with conflicts and complex issues relating to maintenance operations. I have no experience in this area. 7 [7600] Have you had experience developing, implementing, and/or managing the utilization of a preventive maintenance program for one or more maintenance functions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [66209] Select the statement(s) below that describe(s) your experience communicating. Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating orally in an interpersonal setting. I have experience speaking publicly during team meetings. I have experience making presentations to small groups. I have experience briefing managers. I have experience making presentations to large audiences. I have experience interacting with executive level staff. I have experience speaking publicly for the purpose of communicating unfamiliar technical or abstract information. I have experience speaking publicly in stressful and/or adversarial situations. I have experience developing reports. And/or other forms of written communication which convey complex and unfamiliar technical information in a form readily understandable by a general audience. I have formal training and/or work experience in risk or crisis communications. I have experience in oral communication concerning programs or projects that seek to promote behavioral change on the part of a general audience or the public. I have experience in written communication concerning programs or projects that seek to promote behavioral change on the part of a general audience or the public. None of the above. 9 [67380] Select the statement(s) best describe(s) your experience with providing written and/or oral communication to technical experts, mid-level managers, or senior-level officials.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations that involved negotiating and defending complex issues on behalf of my organization. I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations involving communicating and explaining complex technical data, information, or procedures to others. (Examples of this experience include: conducting training seminars, conducting on-the-job training for other employees, or conducting explanatory briefings of technical data). I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations involving communicating routine non-complex information. I have experience preparing and delivering written and/or oral presentations that do not involve presenting findings to technical experts, mid-level managers, or senior-level officals. I do not have experience with providing written and/or oral communication to technical experts, mid-level managers, or senior-level officials. 10 [5209] Choose the statement that best describes your level of experience in written communications. Answer to this question is required I have little to no on the job experience in creating written communication. I have prepared memoranda and brief letters. I have written memoranda, letters, and reports. I have written memoranda, letters, reports, and meeting minutes from multi-agency meetings. I have written memoranda, letters, reports, and meeting minutes from multi-agency meetings; and policies, procedures, and/or training materials. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 [66720] Please select the ONE response that indicates how would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required U.S. CITIZEN - Applicants that do not currently work for the federal government and have not in the past. If you are unsure, please choose this option. YOUR APPLICATION IS NOW COMPLETE. Please ensure your resume reflects all experience related to the position. OR CURRENT OR FORMER FEDERAL EMPLOYEE - Applicants that have competitive status or reinstatement rights, Veterans and applicants with special hiring authorities rights (https://www.opm.gov/faq/employment/What-are-the-special-appointing-authorities-some-agencies-include-in.ashx), please select this option. Please answer a few questions about your federal government experience next. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Answer to this question is required Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 11 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 14 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 15 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 16 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 16.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 16.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 16.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).