Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as the following: (1) Providing technical expertise to evaluate and recommend specifications and proposals for various Utility Distribution Systems (UDS) and plant engineering projects; (2) Performing security infrastructure program management; (3) Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects; (4) Performing project management and monitoring for new construction, renovations and improvements to facilities; and (5) Serving as Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent to ensure accurate and adequate oversight of contractor performance. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. For additional information regarding the qualifications for an Engineering position, please visit OPM's Qualification Standard at http://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/0800/all-professional-engineering-positions-0800/. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques. I have written reports for completed projects. I have written summaries of oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail) for documentation purposes. I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products. None of the above 3 Please select the statement(s) that describe the types of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered briefs / presentations to groups at work or in other venues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings or conferences. None of the above 4 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. 5 Select the elements of a project plan that you have developed. Answer to this question is required Scope of Work Schedule of project activities Milestones and deadlines Project budget Required project resources Quality standards Safety plan None of the above 6 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 7 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience consulting with contractors, architect and engineer (A&amp;E) firms, and contracting officers to resolve difficult unforeseen problems on design interfaces, regulatory limitations, and to exchange information and expedite work. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 8 Identify the following budget tasks that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed budget requests with supporting justifications. Prepared requests for budgeted resources for an organization. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets or forecasting. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine the effect of project change decisions. Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting budgeting plans and justifications. None of the above 9 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Select the task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis regarding contracts. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a contract. Developed Scope of Work or technical requirements documents. Developed safety plans Monitored contractor activities through personal contact. Developed contracts requests with supporting justifications. Prepared requests for contracts resources for an organization. Engaged in the strategic planning process. Procured complex equipment, services, or construction using cost-price analysis techniques. Coordinated the work of contractors on construction and renovations projects. Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting contracts and justifications. None of the above 11 Select the contracting functions you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Evaluate Requests for Proposal (RFPs) Estimate needed resources Shift resources to meet needs Participate in the acquisition process Assess competitive bidding procedures Conduct technical and cost evaluations of proposals Develop independent cost estimates Determine which contract type applies to the situation None of the above 12 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval. Justified budgetary expenses. Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions. Completed a construction project within budget limitations. None of the above 13 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering&nbsp;utility services and/or programs/projects? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 14 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Agency design standards Citation response plans Acquisition strategies Procurement documents (e.g., plans, board selection reports) Policies Specifications None of the above 15 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Developed mechanical design calculations. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop designs. Modified designs to comply with historically significant monumental building limitations. Provided mechanical design review comments. Performed site inspections to confirm compliance with construction documents. Performed site inspections to confirm that existing building conditions match existing record drawings. Performed structural condition assessments of existing structures. None of the above. 16 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in preparing working drawings and specifications to comply with the scope of work and criteria for piping systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. 17 In which design stages have you worked on in a professional setting? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents None of the above 18 In which of the following disciplines do you have experience in design development, coordination or review? Answer to this question is required Architectural Civil Mechanical Electrical Structural Plumbing Hazmat Fire Protection None of the above 19 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in preparing and/or providing technical review of design calculations, analyses, drawings, and specifications to ensure compliance with project requirements and develop project time schedules and cost estimates. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience performing this task; however, I believe I have the ability, knowledge and/or skill to perform this task. I have never or have seldom performed this task. However, I have had education, training or some experience in this task and believe I could complete this task. I perform or have performed this task regularly. My work may, at times, may be monitored or reviewed by others to validate proficiency; however, seldom requires re-work. I perform or have performed this task as a regular part of my duties. I accomplish this task independently and proficiently, meeting or surpassing expectations. I am able to join any organization and successfully accomplish this task without training. 20 Which activities have you performed to generate solutions to a problem? Answer to this question is required Conferred with subject matter experts Analyzed all aspects of the problem Reviewed similar issues or cases Reviewed past practices Researched industry best practices Gathered information from colleagues Researched laws, regulations, and policies None of the above 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.