Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Do you have journey-level experience performing troubleshooting, testing, installation, maintenance and repairs to Fire Protection Systems without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 What is your preferred shift?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Evening Shift: Monday - Friday -1:30pm - 10:00pm. Night Shift: Sunday night thru Friday morning - 9:30PM to 6:00AM 2 Which of&nbsp;the following best describes your experience as related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience related to DDC systems. I have experience interpreting readings and navigating a DDC system. I have experience changing parameters (temperatures, schedules, etc.) using a DDC system. I have experience overriding control valves and damper motors. I have experience interpreting/reading programs for a DDC system. I have experience creating programs/graphics for a DDC system. 3 Which activities have you performed related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I have interpreted DDC system readings. I have changed temperatures using a DDC system. I have programmed a DDC system. None of the above 4 Which of the following types of systems have you been responsible for operating or maintaining? Answer to this question is required DDC BASNet PLC None of the above 5 Do you have experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Direct Digital Controls (DDC) for Air Conditioning Equipment and for the day-to-day overall performance of the DDC? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education with Building Automation Systems (BAS) and Direct Digital Controls (DDC). Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 7 Do you have experience troubleshooting electronic systems for which minimal documentation exists? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Which electrical components and materials do you have experience independently repairing, replacing or troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required Relays Switches Sensors Regulators Bushings Actuators Resistors Power Supplies None of the above 9 Which of the following standard electronic system components have you replaced or performed troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required Computer circuit boards Sensing and controlling units in engines Printed circuits in instrument and indicator panels Diodes in alternator regulators Armatures and control module transistors in electronic ignition systems Sensors and relay units in emission control systems None of the above 10 Which of the following competencies have you demonstrated in the performance of your duties and responsibilities as an Electronics Mechanic? Answer to this question is required Skill in interpreting electronic drawings, specifications, and schematics of complex operational systems. Knowledge of the operation, capabilities, and limitations of electronic test equipment. Ability to integrate the functions of old, outdated equipment with new state-of-the-art equipment while maintaining the integrity of the entire system and its related functions. Ability to install circuit boards, analyze programs, troubleshoot, inspect, test, and maintain electronic equipment and effect repairs. I do not possess any of the above competencies. 11 Have you determined a new method to install or maintain electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 For which reasons have you used electronic test equipment? Answer to this question is required Assessing the voltage levels Testing fiber optic cable for continuity Assessing amperage/resistance levels Measuring footage (e.g., to determine length/footage of cable run) Troubleshooting electronic boards/systems Testing to de-energize circuits to safely work on None of the above 13 Which tools have you used to test electronic equipment or systems? Answer to this question is required Frequency Counters/Meters IR light Meters Ohmmeters Oscilloscopes OTDRs RF Power Meters RF Spectrum Analyzers Tone Generators Voltmeters None of the Above 14 Which tasks have you performed to maintain electric automation systems? Answer to this question is required Repaired variable frequency drives Replaced electric motors Wired a 3-phase motor Adjusted the shiv on a motor Read RPMs and amperages on a motor Replaced current transducers Replaced transformers Repaired controller cards None of the above 15 What building systems have you independently maintained? Answer to this question is required Plumbing systems Piping systems – steam Piping systems – chilled water Piping system – gas Piping systems – pneumatic Piping systems – heating hot water Piping systems – fire suppression systems Electrical systems HVAC systems - fans HVAC systems - controls HVAC systems – variable frequency drives None of the above 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.