Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that most accurately identifies your highest level of education and experience in entering, modifying, tracking and analyzing information in computer accounting and digital record keeping systems? Answer to this question is required Bachelor’s degree in financial management, business administration or a related field plus three (3) years of experience in entering, modifying, tracking and analyzing information in computer accounting and digital record keeping systems. Master’s degree or higher plus two (2) years of experience in entering, modifying, tracking and analyzing information in computer accounting and digital record keeping systems Doctorate degree or higher plus one (1) year of experience in entering, modifying, tracking and analyzing information in computer accounting and digital record keeping systems? None of the above. 2 Which statement best describes your experience training others to use automated and electronic budgeting systems? Answer to this question is required I have had training with in this factor but have not had an opportunity to use this as a part of my daily duties. I have an opportunity to use this factor on a daily basis but under the direct supervision of a manager. I am responsible for this factor as a regular part of my duties which is performed with limited supervision of a manager. I am considered an expert in this factor and I am often consulted with regarding the performance of this factor. None of the above. 3 Which statement best describes your experience with automated financial management systems? Answer to this question is required I have had training with in this factor but have not had an opportunity to use this as a part of my daily duties. I have had an opportunity to use this factor on a daily basis but under the direct supervision of a manager. I am responsible for this factor as a regular part of my duties which is performed with limited supervision of a manager. I am considered an expert in this factor and I am often consulted with regarding the performance of this factor. None of the above. 4 I have experience with workflow analysis. Answer to this question is required True False 5 Select the choice(s) that best describe your data collection and analyzing experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing data that has been previously collected. I have experience researching, gathering and analyzing data. I have experience determining information needs, researching according to information needs, gathering relevant data and analyzing such data. I have experience using software to analyze and create statistical reports. None of the above. 6 Select the statements that describe your work-related writing experience. Answer to this question is required Drafting summaries of written reports. Analyzing and synthesizing information. Combining information from multiple sources and integrating this information. Preparing program reports. Writing research or other technical reports. None of the above. 7 Select the oral communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work. Answer to this question is required Presented information to high level officials or executives. Represented a work group or organization at meetings or conferences. Responded to telephone requests or inquiries from internal and external customers. Provided training on operational processes and procedures. Responded to inquiries from senior agency officials. None of the above. 8 Select the statements that best describe your customer service or customer relations skills and experiences. Answer to this question is required As a result of my customer relations skills, I have used customer feedback or insights to suggest and/or implement strategic enhancements to programs or services. I relate to customers exceedingly well and my customer service skills are consistently recognized formally by my supervisor, colleagues, and customers. I can be counted upon to regularly provide good customer service and understand the importance of customer relations. I have directly investigated and resolved customer issues, preserving the confidence of the customer. None of the above. 9 Choose the answers that best describe your work experience in the accounting field. Answer to this question is required Generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB). Generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASB). Accounts receivable, including billing and collection processes. Accounts payable, including payments processes and expense recognition. Cost accounting, including cost accounting standards and requirements. Budget, including the Federal budget formulation and execution process and budgetary accounting. Reporting, including regulatory reporting requirements, (e.g., Federal Agency Centralized Trial Balance System (FACTS II) reporting, the year-end closing statement, and preparation of the Chief Financial Officers financial statements). Cash, including preparation of reports to Treasury (e.g., FMS Form 224 and monthly Treasury reconciliations). Property, Plant, and Equipment, including construction-in-progress, plant and facilities, movable equipment, and depreciation. Revenue, including revenue recognition for reimbursable agreements, revolving funds and user fees. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).