Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to retrieve, review, and analyze information to resolve problems.** Practical knowledge of utilizing physical and electronic records and databases to retrieve, review, and analyze information to resolve problems and recommend solutions. Answer to this question is required Independently OR with minimal supervision, retrieved, reviewed, identified, and analyzed information in Copyright Office records to resolve problems and recommend solutions. Utilized discretion in choosing the appropriate resources for analysis and in arriving at recommended solutions. Referred complex searches to supervisory staff and provided assistance to colleagues. With minimal supervision, retrieved, reviewed, identified, and analyzed information in Copyright Office records to resolve problems and recommend solutions. Utilized discretion in choosing the appropriate resources for analysis and in arriving at recommended solutions. Referred complex searches to supervisory staff. Under supervision, retrieved, reviewed, identified, and analyzed information records. Identified problems and recommended solutions according to regulations, directives and/or guidelines. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to interpret and apply a variety of guidelines and/or regulations.** Ability to utilize guidelines, directives, written procedures, and regulations to organize and execute work assignments. For example, regularly used judgement to identify and select the most appropriate procedures to use by choosing from among several established alternatives and using judgement to handle work assignments when guidelines did not fully cover the situation. Answer to this question is required Independently organized and processed documents, materials and/or products, and completed work assignments based on a variety of written directions. Performed detailed work similar to the example above with speed and accuracy. With minimal supervision, organized and processed documents, materials and/or products, and completed work assignments based on a variety of written directions. Performed detailed work similar to the example above with speed and accuracy. Under supervision, organized and processed documents, materials and/or products and completed work assignments based on a variety of written directions. Performed detailed work similar to the example above with speed and accuracy. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to utilize computer technology and software applications. Utilized computer technology to perform work for an organization, including: 1) word-processing (e.g., MS Word), 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 3) Adobe Pro, 4) database searches (e.g., Library Catalog, Siebel), 5) printing equipment, and 6) web-based tools. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision used ALL of the above computer technology/software applications. Independently or with minimal supervision used FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above computer technology/software applications, including 4) database searches and 6) web-based tools. Independently or with minimal supervision, used THREE (3) of the above computer technology/software applications including 4) database searches and 6) web-based tools. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, concise, well-organized, and accurate written text following the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation for both hardcopy and electronic distribution such as: 1) memoranda; 2) correspondence; 3) administrative policies or procedures; 4) meeting minutes; 5) recommendations; and 6) reports. Answer to this question is required In an office setting, independently drafted, edited, and reviewed documents including ALL of the above. Communicated accurate and clear content with correct format, spelling, and grammar. Audiences for these documents included both internal and external customers. In an office setting, with minimal guidance drafted, edited, and reviewed documents including THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above. Communicated accurate and clear content with correct format, spelling and grammar. Audiences for these documents included both internal and external customers. With minimal guidance drafted, edited, and reviewed documents including TWO (2) of the above. Communicated accurate and clear content with correct format, spelling and grammar. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate and interact collaboratively with others. Developed and maintained relationships among a variety of stakeholders (e.g. co-workers, supervisors/managers, vendors, clients, customers). Answer to this question is required Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors, staff, and the public. Independently collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors, staff and the public. With minimal supervision, collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. Initiated and maintained cooperative working relationships with supervisors and staff. With minimal supervision, collaborated primarily with internal stakeholders to gather and communicate information, field processing questions, search for missing materials, process and complete work, and/or resolve issues. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).