Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 [30209] Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 {72312} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience supporting property management functions, property custody records, and tracking property transfers to ensure accuracy of records? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 {72313} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience performing quality control checks of storeroom and stock inventories, generating reports and records, and reviewing applicable directives and implementing changes? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [72326] Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience planning and formulating organization-level policies consistent with laws, regulations, organizational goals and strategic plans. Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for planning and formulating complex supply management policies that require extensive research I am participating as a specialist or team member in planning and formulating complex policies in supply management that require extensive research. I am interpreting and applying supply management policies to program issues in an operational setting. I am following supply management policy guidance received within the office. None of the above. 5 [72315] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in personal property management. Answer to this question is required I have interpreted and developed organizational policies governing the management, accountability, control, utilization, and disposal of owned, leased, and borrowed equipment. I have conducted complex, organization-wide personal property data calls. I have extensive experience with personal property management principles, practices, and techniques. I have experience with the full lifecycle of an asset, from acquisition to disposition. None of the above. 6 [4563] Select the statement that best describes your experience maintaining accounting and reporting systems for property and performing phases of property management? Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in maintaining accounting and reporting systems for property. I have had education or training in maintaining accounting and reporting systems for property, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have maintained accounting and reporting systems for property on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have experience maintaining accounting and reporting systems for property as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised the maintenance of accounting and reporting systems, and/or I have trained others in this task and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 [9118] Select the statement that best describes your experience performing a wide range of supply system operations such as records management functions in inventory, acquisition, disposal of excess property and receipt and control processes. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing a wide range of supply system operations. I have had education or training in performing a wide range of supply system operations but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performing a wide range of supply system operations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised the performance of a wide range of supply system operations, and/or I have trained others in this task and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 [4587] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience managing, or directing logistics/supply management program and/or significant program elements. Answer to this question is required Issue technically authoritative interpretation and decisions regarding laws, regulations, and program policies relating to the program. Develop and recommend program policies, strategies, and goals Develop and approve program procedures and practices Promote program and provide expert advice to a variety of senior officials None of the above 9 [23049] Select the supply system operations task(s) you have experience with and have been responsible for applying on a daily basis in your employment. This must be documented and supported in your resume. Answer to this question is required Records management functions in inventory Storage Cataloging Acquisition Disposal of excess property Receipt and control processes None of the above 10 [4069] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience providing technical oversight for logistics support services contracts. Answer to this question is required I have developed procurement requests or requests for proposals (RFPs), including statements of work. I have served on a technical review panel and evaluated responses to Requests for Proposals (RFPs). I have monitored performance and provided technical direction for such contracts. None of the above 11 [58245] Choose the budget-related task(s) you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job with minimal supervision. Answer to this question is required Determine the costs and benefits of operations. Respond to budget inquiries. Resolve budgetary/financial issues. Monitor and track obligations and expenditures. Prepare monthly/quarterly financial reports. Recommend budget plans to reviewing and approving authorities. None of the above. 12 [3827] Select the software applications you have utilized. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Access Microsoft Excel FEDLOG None of the above 13 [845] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with inter- and intra-office communication. Answer to this question is required I have communicated effectively with co-workers within a team environment. I have coordinated work within the office with clerical, administrative and other personnel. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have made contacts with other offices within and outside the agency to obtain or provide information. I have received telephone calls, greeted visitors and determined where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members. None of the above 14 [3826] Select the statement that best describes your experience contacting customers, suppliers, or others to obtain information concerning status of supplies/items, and/or to expedite delivery. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in contacting customers, suppliers, or others to obtain information concerning status of supplies/items, and/or to expedite delivery. I have had education or training in contacting customers, suppliers, or others to obtain information concerning status of supplies/items, and/or to expedite delivery, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience contacting customers, suppliers, or others to obtain information concerning status of supplies/items, and/or to expedite delivery on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have experience contacting customers, suppliers, or others to obtain information concerning status of supplies/items, and/or to expedite delivery as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised the contacting of customers, suppliers, or others to obtain information concerning status of supplies/items, and/or to expedite delivery, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 {72316} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience providing quality assurance oversight and auditing of activities related to property management, supply operations, and bulk material storage including conducting follow-up evaluations to ensure adherence to established procedures? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 {72316} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience in procurement functions, including competitive bid procedures, solicitation for quotations from local vendors, basic ordering agreement procedures, small purchase procedures, acquisition of services, and contract administration functions? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 {72318} Do you have at least one year of specialized experience generating and maintaining accurate records and reports inventory management, market surveys, procurement requests, or contracts? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [2398] Do you have experience receiving, screening, reviewing, and verifying supply documents and resolving discrepancies? Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [9120] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in property management. Answer to this question is required Develop sources of supply for all items of furniture, equipment and supplies Barcode selected items of furniture and equipment Complete the necessary documentation to turn-in excess furniture and equipment Maintain accountability for sensitive items Depreciation of capitalized property Donation/sale of surplus personal property None of the above. 7 [6086] Choose the statement that best describes your skills in the use of large storage and retrieval systems (>500,000 records) for electronic data and document images. Answer to this question is required I have experience with the design of and the use of large storage and retrieval systems (>500,000 documents) for electronic data and document images. I have experience with the use of (but not design of) large storage and retrieval systems (>500,000 documents) for electronic data and document images. I have experience with the use of storage and retrieval systems for electronic data and document images. I have no experience with the use of storage and retrieval systems for electronic data and document images. 8 [59094] Select the statement that best describes your experience with the Ready Reserve Force Management System (RMS) or equivalent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in the Ready Reserve Force Management System (RMS) or equivalent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. I have had education or training in the Ready Reserve Force Management System (RMS) or equivalent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience with the Ready Reserve Force Management System (RMS) or equivalent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have experience utilizing the Ready Reserve Force Management System (RMS) or equivalent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience utilizing the Ready Reserve Force Management System (RMS) or equivalent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in utilizing the Ready Reserve Force Management System (RMS) or equivalent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function to raise their level of proficiency in this area. 9 [2518] Select the statement that best describes your safety experience. Answer to this question is required I have not attended any formal safety training programs. My previous work experience required I attend safety specific training. My previous work experience required I attend safety specific training I have experienced no work related injuries caused from using improper techniques or by not following safety directives. 10 [915] Select the safety equipment that you have regularly used in your work. Answer to this question is required Safety Shoes Safety Glasses Safety Harness Respiratory Devices Personal Floatation Device Confined Space Meter Hard Hat Grounding Straps Rubber work gloves I have not used any of these items regularly in my work. 11 [72314] Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience planning and formulating organization-level policies consistent with laws, regulations, organizational goals and agency strategic plans. Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for planning and formulating complex supply management policies that require extensive research I am participating as a specialist or team member in planning and formulating complex policies in supply management that require extensive research. I am interpreting and applying supply management policies to program issues in an operational setting. I am following supply management policy guidance received within the office. None of the above. 12 [4069] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience providing technical oversight for logistics support services contracts. Answer to this question is required I have developed procurement requests or requests for proposals (RFPs), including statements of work. I have served on a technical review panel and evaluated responses to Requests for Proposals (RFPs). I have monitored performance and provided technical direction for such contracts. None of the above 13 [58245] Choose the budget-related task(s) you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job with minimal supervision. Answer to this question is required Determine the costs and benefits of operations. Respond to budget inquiries. Resolve budgetary/financial issues. Monitor and track obligations and expenditures. Prepare monthly/quarterly financial reports. Recommend budget plans to reviewing and approving authorities. None of the above. 14 [1582] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with procurement and/or contract services. Answer to this question is required Developed statements of work Monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchase orders Prepared and monitored reimbursable agreements Assisted in developing independent government cost estimates Assisted in developing specifications for use in solicitations for goods and services Evaluated the qualifications of vendors None of the above 15 [3817] Select the response that best describes your experience establishing and maintaining effective working relationships which promote leadership, negotiations, cooperation, and teamwork. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in establishing and maintaining effective working relationships which promote leadership, negotiations, cooperation, and teamwork. I have had education or training in establishing and maintaining effective working relationships which promote leadership, negotiations, cooperation, and teamwork, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have experience establishing and maintaining effective working relationships which promote leadership, negotiations, cooperation, and teamwork on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have experience establishing and maintaining effective working relationships which promote leadership, negotiations, cooperation, and teamwork as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience establishing and maintaining effective working relationships which promote leadership, negotiations, cooperation, and teamwork as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in establishing and maintaining effective working relationships which promote leadership, negotiations, cooperation, and teamwork. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 16 [845] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with inter- and intra-office communication. Answer to this question is required I have communicated effectively with co-workers within a team environment. I have coordinated work within the office with clerical, administrative and other personnel. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have made contacts with other offices within and outside the agency to obtain or provide information. I have received telephone calls, greeted visitors and determined where callers/visitors/inquiries should be directed. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members. None of the above Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 14 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 14.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 14.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 14.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).