Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system related to the work of this position (as described in the vacancy announcement). OPM describes the Specialized Experience as experience in the actual type of work for which the application is made. I have obtained a Master`s Degree or have two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or have an LL.B. or JD in commercial art, fine arts, art history, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, photography, visual communication, or other fields related to the position. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following statements reflect your experience designing for an art museum the following graphic products? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience designing digital electronic signage for an art museum. I have experience designing motion graphics for an art museum. I have experience designing exhibition posters for an art museum. I have experience designing exhibition or program brochures for an art museum. I have experience designing exhibition labels for an art museum. I have experience designing exhibition wall graphics for an art museum. I have experience designing large format outdoor exhibition or program signs for an art museum. I have experience designing large format outdoor exhibition or program banners for an art museum. I have experience designing exhibition or program announcements or invitations for an art museum. I have experience designing exhibition or program magazine or newspaper ads for an art museum. I have experience designing exhibition or program t-shirts for an art museum. I have experience designing museum sales shop signage systems for an art museum. I have experience designing post cards for an art museum. I have experience designing booklets for an art museum. I have experience designing press kits for an art museum. I have experience designing traveling exhibition graphics for an art museum. I have experience designing maps for an art museum. I have experience designing photo murals for an art museum. I have experience designing stationery for an art museum. I have experience designing educational materials for an art museum. I have experience designing architectural details or technical drawings such as dimensional plans, elevations or renderings for an art museum. None of the above, or no, I have not designed these products for an art museum. 3 Which of the following statements reflect your experience producing practical design solutions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have produced design solutions that were measurably effective or functional. I have produced design solutions that were spare or utilitarian. I have produced design solutions that conformed to ADA accessibility guidelines. I have produced design solutions that utilized green strategies or methods of production. I have produced design solutions that utilized ecologically responsible materials. I have produced design solutions that were themselves recyclable. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements reflect your experience working with design guidelines in the following settings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working with design guidelines in a design studio. I have experience working with design guidelines in an advertising agency. I have experience working with design guidelines in a cultural institution. I have experience working with design guidelines in an art museum. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements reflect your experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using the following procedures, materials and equipment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using silkscreen labels, wall texts, and posters. I have experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using press type or dry transfer letting. I have experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using CAD cut self adhesive vinyl lettering or graphics. I have experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using large format sign or banner installation. I have experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using mounting adhesives. I have experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using carpenter’s level and square. I have experience installing art museum or cultural institution graphics using ladders, scaffolding or mechanical lifts. None of the above, or I do not have experience with the above for an art museum or cultural institution. 6 Which of the following items have you prepared for an exhibition design? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Conceptual drawings Space plan with traffic flow Technical drawings such as elevations Case or furniture design Mill work Exhibit text and graphics Specifications, including paint and fabric choices Lighting design None of the above 7 Which of the following graphic tasks have you performed to create artwork and final print-ready files for production? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Manipulating images in Photoshop (sizing, colorizing, cleaning up, contrasting). Creating illustrations in Illustrator, based on rudimentary information supplied by designer Creating final print-ready graphic production files in InDesign for large-format printers Creating final print-ready graphic production files in InDesign for other print media Importing supplied copy and applying style sheets for typesetting, adjusting line breaks in an aesthetically pleasing way. Creating clipping paths in Illustrator for large print graphics Creating graphic files for the web Creating graphic designs independent of an exhibit designer Creating PDF packages of assorted graphic design files Creating graphic files for sampling of colors and type combinations Importing graphic files into production drawings to include in working drawing package. Reviewed sample production prints for quality None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your training and experience in Adobe Creative Suite Software or other visual design software? Answer to this question is required I have training and experience in designing and producing graphics using other commercial visual design software. I am self-trained or have training and experience in designing and producing graphics using Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and Acrobat. I have college-level training in Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and Acrobat or I have designed and produced graphics using the programs. I have college-level training in Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and Acrobat, and I have designed and produced graphics for exhibitions using the programs (as an assistant or lead designer). I do not possess any of the above. 9 Which of the following computer aided drafting (CAD) programs have you used to create production ready files? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Vectorworks AutoCad Inventor AutoCad Sketch Up Rhino Mastercam Revit Ashler Vellum Solid Works Solid Edge None of the above 10 Which of the following statements describe your experience projecting and managing budgets for graphics production and printing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have estimated costs for a graphics project based on historical data I have estimated costs for a graphics project based on vendor quotes I have researched product and service options and pricing I have prepared bid/quote summaries for purchase orders I have negotiated contract terms or pricing I have tracked and monitored budgets I have resolved billing issues with a vendor None of the above 11 Which of the following statements reflect your experience with original designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for the following types of organizations or purposes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for museums. I have worked with designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for cultural institutions other than museums. I have worked with designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for exhibitions. I have worked with designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for events, such as receptions, galas, and institutional celebrations. I have worked with designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for programs open to the public. I have worked with designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for festivals. I have worked with designs and layouts of large scale graphics and/or outdoor signs for businesses or individuals. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing exhibition design and production schedules? Answer to this question is required I have met design or production schedules set by others. I have participated with others in setting design and production schedules. I have established design and production schedules for individual exhibitions. I have established design and production schedules for multiple, overlapping exhibitions or similar multi-year, multi-part design and construction projects. None of the above. 13 Which of the following tasks have you performed to produce Art museum or cultural institution graphics? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Typesetting Sizing, cropping, and optimizing images Color matching or correction Printing with large format printers Printing directly on walls or windows Mounting prints, photographs or type to panels or walls Preparing graphic files for CAD vinyl cutter None of the above, or I have not performed the above tasks to produce art museum or cultural institution graphics Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.