Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Trust Fund Specialists are responsible for implementation, administration, and coordination of programs and operations, including Commissary, Inmate Telephone (TRUFONE), Trust Fund Limited Inmate Computer System (TRULINCS), Inmate Deposit Fund, Warehouse and Laundry/Clothing Issue. They must analyze, resolve, troubleshoot, and report problems in the systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved non-complex automated operational system problems; and/or I have performed general maintenance and trouble shooting on automated systems and/or applications; and/or I have provided guidance and training for staff regarding basic functions in an automated program (i.e., Fund Control or similar type program). I have provided technical assistance and training to executive staff, department heads, staff, and/or inmates regarding programs, operational areas and/or systems/applications; and/or I have maintained/monitored inmate accounts and/or reviewed/evaluated TRUNET/TRULINKS (all applications) reports to identify, research, and/or resolve/report unusual/suspicious activity. I have prepared budget and/or accounting documents and reports; and/or I have keyed transactions and maintained accounting records; and/or I have conducted sales using a point-of-sale system/application; and/or I have maintained accountability and security for inventory; and/or I have performed customer service functions (i.e., resolved customer complaints, assisted callers with inquiries, directing customer to appropriate department). I have performed Deposit Fund duties, including inmate payroll, Financial Responsibility Program (FRP) processes, inmate withdrawals, inmate restrictions, encumbrances. None of the above. 3 Trust Fund Specialists organize work, set priorities, determine departmental, operational, and program resource requirements, coordinate with departmental staff and other departments to accomplish goals, monitor progress and evaluate outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed duties in various operational areas, moving between each area numerous times on a daily basis, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have developed checklists to ensure efficient work flow and policy requirements were accomplished and maintained; and/or I have coordinated with multiple departments to provide guidance, training, and assistance regarding an operational, program, or system issue. I have printed and evaluated reports and information received from staff regarding problematic operations, programs, systems and/or applications and coordinated with the appropriate staff to ensure corrective action; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to ensure the accomplishment of all assignments and projects; and/or I have routinely evaluated accomplishments to ensure all daily requirements/tasks were completed by the end of the work day. I have complied with policy for established deadlines; and/or I have followed priorities established by supervisor in completing routine duties/functions; and/or I have maintained pre-developed assignment and due date tracking system. None of the above. 4 Trust Fund Specialists work with staff within the Trust Fund Department, staff from other departments throughout the institution, and inmates to assess their needs, and provide expertise, guidance, technical assistance, training and resolve problems regarding Trust Fund programs, operations, systems, and applications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized existing training material to facilitate sharing information with others; and/or I have worked with co-workers from other sections in order to maintain staff coverage for each section; and/or I have provided basic clerical assistance to other departments and they, in turn, reciprocated. I have implemented solutions and provided direct assistance to staff and inmates regarding system/application functionality; and/or I have prepared responses to "Inmate Requests to Staff Members" (Cop-Outs) or electronic messages from inmates regarding Trust Fund/Deposit Fund operational, system, and/or application issues. I have participated in affirmative action committee activities; and/or I have served as representative from office for Combined Federal Campaign; and/or I have served as community volunteer; and/or I have worked/communicated with peers (co-workers) in order to set up a facility/office event; and/or I have been an active member on Student Council Committee; and/or I have assisted work group in gathering information for the topic to be addressed. I have communicated directly with inmates during mainline or conducted open house and researched and resolved inmate account issues, and provided accurate and timely responses regarding the outcome; and/or I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers. None of the above. 5 Trust Fund Specialists identify the need for information/data and know where and/or how to gather the information. They organize and maintain information/data and/or information systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized existing spreadsheets in Lotus 123, Excel or similar type applications to complete tasks; and/or I have identified the appropriate records/data to complete a project; and/or I have maintained office files as required by policy or institution procedures; and/or i have acquired, retrieved, organized and maintained data/information. I have served as a systems administrator; and/or I have served as a TRUACCESS roll manager, assigning access rights to employees; and/or I have worked with others to correct system/application errors/malfunctions. I have retrieved and provided files from a systematic arrangement for supervisor upon request; and/or I have utilized basic functions of word processing and/or e-mail application to store electronic files; and/or I have used established procedures for maintenance of documentation and files; and/or I have established and utilized an electronic group calendar to assign tasks and monitor progress. I have processed and maintained records/data in regard to security requirements, such as NCICs, vouchering and fingerprinting, for contractors/volunteers; and/or I have monitored a departmental budget, including assigning fund control numbers, generating and monitoring reports and reconciling planned against actual expenditures. None of the above. 6 Trust Fund Specialists perform Financial Management-related administration, maintenance, and workflow functions within the Trust Fund Department in regard to budget, accounting, and procurement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with formulating and requesting a budget for the Department's cost centers; and/or I have processed purchases for supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, using the Government purchase card. I have processed various inmate accounting transactions timely and followed-up on and corrected issues identified by the department head; and/or I have performed various inventories within the institution; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have used financial management policy to process purchases, travel, inmate payroll, etc. I have processed accounting/inmate account functions/transactions accurately and researched unusual situations and recommended solutions; and/or I have participated as a team member for operational reviews of various disciplines within the institution, or on Program Reviews of other institution Trust Fund or Business Office. I have prepared documentation for purchases of supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, using the proper forms and format; and/or I have keyed recurring accounting transactions using established procedures; and/or I have located fund control documents and/or files and provided them to the supervisor upon request. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Trust Fund Specialists organize work, set priorities, determine departmental, operational, and program resource requirements, coordinate with departmental staff and other departments to accomplish goals, monitor progress and evaluate outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed duties in various operational areas, moving between each area numerous times on a daily basis, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have developed checklists to ensure efficient work flow and policy requirements were accomplished and maintained; and/or I have coordinated with multiple departments to provide guidance, training, and assistance regarding an operational, program, or system issue. I have prioritized individual and departmental tasks and conducted follow-up to ensure budgeting, procurement, resources, property accountability and system maintenance & security requirements were accomplished timely. I have printed and evaluated reports and information received from staff regarding problematic operations, programs, systems and/or applications and coordinated with the appropriate staff to ensure corrective action; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to ensure the accomplishment of all assignments and projects; and/or I have routinely evaluated accomplishments to ensure all daily requirements/tasks were completed by the end of the work day. I have successfully maintained individual workload, while providing guidance and assistance to staff, including staff from other departments; and/or I have determined local resources necessary and coordinated efforts for accomplishing a new program implementation and/or emergency repair of a system malfunction. None of the above. 3 Trust Fund Specialists work with staff within the Trust Fund Department, staff from other departments throughout the institution, and inmates to assess their needs, and provide expertise, guidance, technical assistance, training and resolve problems regarding Trust Fund programs, operations, systems, and applications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented solutions and provided direct assistance to staff and inmates regarding system/application functionality; and/or I have prepared responses to "Inmate Requests to Staff Members" (Cop-Outs) or electronic messages from inmates regarding Trust Fund/Deposit Fund operational, system, and/or application issues. I have communicated with and provided training verbally and/or in writing to a group regarding departmental operations, systems and applications; and/or I have developed a reference or procedural guide to assist with the accomplishment of Trust Fund-related functions by staff and/or inmates. I have communicated directly with inmates during mainline or conducted open house and researched and resolved inmate account issues, and provided accurate and timely responses regarding the outcome; and/or I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers. I have participated in affirmative action committee activities; and/or I have served as representative from office for Combined Federal Campaign; and/or I have served as community volunteer; and/or I have worked/communicated with peers (co-workers) in order to set up facility/office event; and/or I have been an active member on Student Council Committee; and/or I have assisted work group in gathering information for the topic to be addressed. I have organized a work group to discuss new policy and the implementation of the policy; and/or I have provided training to co-workers or other department staff concerning travel, fund control, personnel procedures, etc., to fulfill a training need within the organization. None of the above. 4 Trust Fund Specialists perform Financial Management-related administration, maintenance, and workflow functions within the Trust Fund Department in regard to budget, accounting, and procurement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed various inmate accounting transactions timely and followed-up on and corrected issues identified by the department head; and/or I have performed various inventories within the institution; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have used financial management policy to process purchases, travel, inmate payroll, etc. I have developed and managed a department budget; and/or I have used analytical comparisons of historical cost data and ensured the department budgets were maintained within allotted funds; and/or I have approved purchases for supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, ensuring purchases were in compliance with purchasing regulations. I have assisted with formulating and requesting a budget for the Department's cost centers; and/or I have processed purchases for supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, using the Government purchase card. I have ensured accounting functions/transactions to FMIS, TRUFACS, TRUFONE, and TRULINCS were completed accurately and all systems are reconciled monthly; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed financial records and made recommendations to improve procedures and processes to benefit the overall operation; and/or I have performed functions as the team lead during internal audits or operational reviews of the Trust Fund Department and/or Business Office. I have processed accounting/inmate account functions/transactions accurately and researched unusual situations and recommended solutions; and/or I have participated as a team member for operational reviews of various disciplines within the institution, or on Program Reviews of other institution Trust Fund or Business Office. None of the above. 5 Trust Fund Specialists identify the need for information/data and know where and/or how to gather the information. They organize and maintain information/data and/or information systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved and/or generated Trust Fund data from multiple Trust Fund applications and/or sources and provided it to multiple end users; and/or I have identified system/application errors/malfunction and independently implemented corrective measures. I have utilized existing spreadsheets in Excel or similar type applications to complete tasks; and/or I have identified the appropriate records/data to complete a project; and/or I have maintained office files as required by policy or institution procedures; and/or I have acquired, retrieved, organized and maintained data/information. I have served as a systems administrator; and/or I have served as a TRUACCESS roll manager, assigning access rights to employees; and/or I have worked with others to correct system/application errors/malfunctions. I have generated and monitored reports regarding inmate accounts, money and spending patterns, inventories, and system usage; and/or I have created spreadsheets using complex formulas and intra-dependent worksheets in Excel or similar type applications, which improved the accuracy and effectiveness of the departmental operations. I have processed and maintained records/data in regard to security requirements, such as NCICs, vouchering and fingerprinting, for contractors/volunteers; and/or I have monitored a departmental budget, including assigning fund control numbers, generating and monitoring reports and reconciling planned against actual expenditures. None of the above. 6 Trust Fund Specialist are responsible for implementation, administration, and coordination of Trust Fund programs and operations, including Commissary services, Inmate Telephone services (TRUFONE), Trust Fund Limited Inmate Computer System services (TRULINCS), Inmate Deposit Fund services, Institution Warehouse services and Institution Laundry and Clothing Issue services. Additionally, they use their working knowledge of the Trust Fund network systems, system administration and applications to analyze, resolve, troubleshoot, and report problems in the systems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed the duties of team leader or point of contact/liaison during the implementation or initiation of a new automated system, application, program, or operational area; and/or I have served as acting Trust Fund Supervisor, assuming all responsibilities and authority thereof, during an extended absence, or transition period. I have provided technical assistance and training to executive staff, department heads, staff, and/or inmates regarding programs, operational areas and/or systems/applications; and/or I have performed Deposit Fund duties, including inmate payroll, Financial Responsibility Program (FRP) processes, inmate withdrawals, inmate restrictions, encumbrances. I have provided job specific assistance/training to staff at one or more other facilities; and/or I have developed and/or provided oversight and guidance during the preparation or re-write of an internal policy and/or procedures guide; and/or I have participated as a team member during a Trust Fund operational review/or equivalent. I have prepared budget and/or accounting documents and reports; and/or I have keyed transactions and maintained accounting records; and/or I have conducted sales using a point-of-sale system/application; and/or I have maintained accountability and security for inventory; and/or I have performed customer service functions (i.e., resolved customer complaints, assisted callers with inquiries, directing customer to appropriate department). I have maintained/monitored inmate accounts and/or reviewed/evaluated TRUNET/TRULINKS (all applications) reports to identify, research, and/or resolve/report unusual/suspicious activity. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).