Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 Applicants applying for this position MUST be currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution on a half time or full time basis and have an overall grade point average (GPA) of 2.5 or above to be eligible for the DOJ Pathways Internship Program. From the choices below, select the answer choice appropriate. Answer to this question is required I am currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution AND I am attending classes on a half time or full time basis OR I am currently in my last semester prior to receiving my degree AND I have an overall GPA of 2.5 or above. NOTE: All applicants MUST submit legible transcripts which document their overall GPA AND documentation as specified in the Required Documents and Qualification Sections of the vacancy announcement verifying current enrollment and attendance on a half time or full time basis. The documentation must be provided at the time of application. I am not currently enrolled in a qualifying educational institution OR I am not attending classes on a half time or full time basis OR I do not currently have an overall GPA of 2.5 or above. NOTE: All applicants must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 You must have completed two academic years of graduate level education, or a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must submit one of the following: A statement from the Training Director presiding over the doctoral program validating completion of the Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship (AAPI) and matriculation at a clinical or counseling doctoral program. OR A copy of confirmation of completion of the Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship (APPI) and registration for the Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers (APPIC) Match (i.e., proof of payment or Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers Match ID number). 3 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Psychology Doctoral Intern must be able to select, administer, score, and interpret a variety of assessments, using a multi-method approach to form a diagnosis, accurately evaluate presenting question, and communicate results in written and verbal formats appropriate to the site.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed and communicated findings of at least five suicide risk assessments; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of at least five personality/intellectual assessments; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate, understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide range of disorders. I have completed and communicated findings of at least three suicide risk assessments; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of at least three personality/intellectual assessments during practicum; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide range of disorders at least three times during practicum. I have researched how to complete and communicated findings of at least one suicide risk assessment; and/or I have researched how to complete and communicated findings of at least one personality or one intellectual assessments; and/or I have researched how to elicit relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for disorders and communicated findings. None of the above. 5 The Psychology Doctoral Intern must be able to conceptualize, plan and implement, through multiple therapeutic modalities, interventions with fidelity to empirical models and flexibility to adapt where appropriate while evaluating treatment progress and modifying planning as indicated by the context or case. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as a practicum student, researched how to respond to a crisis/potential crisis (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator, or victim of violence) cases; and/or I have researched group interventions; and/or I have researched case conceptualization from one theoretical perspective. I have prevented suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator, or victim of violence; and/or I have conducted three types of group interventions; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and articulated matching model to patient. I have provided assistance during suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence cases; and/or I have, during practicum, conducted two types of group interventions; and/or I have, during practicum, conceptualized a case from one theoretical perspective and articulated clear rationale matching model to patient. None of the above. 6 The Psychology Doctoral Intern must relate effectively and meaningfully with other professionals by providing expert assistance and communication (verbal and written) in response to client or system needs and goals. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained and provided written updates on caseloads to supervisor as needed; and/or I have researched verbal communication techniques with supervisor and solicited advice or feedback regarding client progress; and/or I have formulated a clinical opinion on clinical case management/treatment recommendation during research on group supervision. I have maintained effective relationship with supervisor by providing weekly written updates on caseload; and/or I have communicated verbally with supervisor and solicited advice or feedback regarding client progress; and/or I have provided clinical opinion on clinical case management/treatment recommendation during peer review or group supervision. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with mental health treatment teams; and/or I have provided written feedback/notes on clinical cases to the mental health treatment team; and/or I have provided verbal feedback and opinions during treatment team meetings. None of the above. 7 The Psychology Doctoral Intern is oriented toward furthering their professional identity and growth including receiving and providing supervision, engaging in scholarship, and demonstrating their commitment to the development of the profession. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as a practicum student attended a didactic seminar on professional psychology ethics; and/or I have discussed legal issues relevant to the practice of professional psychology with supervisor; and/or I have attended a professional psychology seminar or scientific session at a conference. I have, as a student, researched professional psychology ethics; and/or I have authored a paper for a class on legal issues relevant to the practice of professional psychology; and/or I have assisted with gathering research material on the topic of professional ethics. I have resolved situations that had custodial or treatment implications with supervisory guidance; and/or I have, under clinical supervision, identified complex legal and ethical issues that arose in the custodial or treatment situations; and/or I have made a presentation on professional psychology at a scientific meeting or professional conference. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).