Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a bachelor's from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that included or was supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. OR I have a combination of education and experience--Applicants who have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree, but who do not meet the specific course requirements shown above meet minimum qualification requirements if they have completed at least one full academic year of professional teaching experience at the elementary or secondary school level as appropriate to the position to be filled. Professional teaching experience is defined as full and primary responsibility for the instruction of assigned students under general supervision in a recognized or accredited school or other accredited educational institution. This includes responsibility for preparation and presentation of lessons and the evaluation of students' progress throughout the learning period, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria. OR I have a teacher certification or licensure in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants using Option A or B to qualify MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants using Option C to qualify, MUST submit proof of Teacher certification or licensure. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Teachers must possess good skills to communicate with students/inmates in a correctional setting as well as a variety of other individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted tutor training sessions; and/or I have given introductory presentation to new students/inmates; and/or I have counseled a student/inmate who requested educational assistance; and/or I have researched and shared information with peers. I have conducted safety student/inmate orientation; and/or I have provided a presentation to an audience regarding research of an article; and/or I have provided updates during department meetings. I have presented overview of program area for Agency staff; and/or I have spoke to members from trade advisory board or citizen volunteer groups; and/or I have provided oral updates regarding specific area during formal meeting with supervisor/managers; and/or I have discussed enrollment procedures and course curriculum; and/or I have discussed progress with students/inmates or education review team. None of the above. 4 Teachers work in a correctional setting providing instruction to individuals from various backgrounds. He/she conducts and documents initial and progressive education interviews.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Using curriculum developed by others, I have taught students/inmates from various backgrounds; and/or I have encouraged open discussions with students/inmates of various cultures/backgrounds; and/or I have used supplemental activities developed by others to integrate different content and perspectives. I have assisted in development and implementation of course objectives for others; and/or I have assisted in implementing assessment tools for others; and/or I have assisted in creating supplemental activities for others; and/or I have assisted in identifying learning strategies and materials for others. I have sought out different speakers for classes; and/or I have assisted with intervening when cultural differences caused conflict in a classroom; and/or I have addressed different cultural and economic perspectives through communication/discussions in a classroom; and/or I have worked as a translator. None of the above. 5 Teachers must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner, as he/she has contact with institution, regional and Central Office staff via written communication.&nbsp; He/she must prepare documents and correspondence related to educational needs and programs, as well as prepare information memoranda for the student/inmate population.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written new procedures for program for Supervisor’s review; and/or I have provided written information for Supervisor to be included in a group email to others in response to various educational inquiries; and/or I have identified remedial needs and interests of the students/inmates and documented needs for Supervisor; and/or I have documented student/inmate progress for Supervisor through written reports and re-testing. I have under direction of a master teacher, drafted lesson plans based upon student/inmate needs; and/or I have assisted drafting documents for supplemental activities to remediate deficits; and/or I have with assistance, documented student/inmate progress. I have provided written input for various education reports; and/or I have prepared response to written requests from other departments; and/or I have prepared response to complex student/inmate inquiry. None of the above. 6 Teachers develop and modify curricula to meet the various learning needs of students/inmates. He/she uses his/her knowledge of curriculum design to develop courses appropriate for adult learners. He/she may modify curriculum by creating supplemental activities and assessing student/inmate progress. He/she may teach in multiple program areas, and therefore, develop lessons using interactive audiovisual aides, group discussion, and computer-assisted instruction with modifications for a variety of students/inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have with supervision, modified course objectives; and/or I have administered assessment tools to determine entering skills; and/or I have reviewed selection of the curriculum to answer inquiries. I have assisted others in modifying course objectives; and/or I have assisted master teachers with administering assessment tools to determine entering skills; and/or I have assisted in the selection of the curriculum. I have as a group member, I have modified course objectives; and/or as a group member, I have identified entrance assessment tools; and/or I have modified course material as a group member. None of the above. 7 Teachers&nbsp;utilize a variety of assessment measures to develop effective education plans for his/her students/inmates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in selecting, administering and scoring informal classroom assessments; and/or I have used remedial strategies suggested by others; and/or I have assessed progress through informal measures. I have participated with the administration and scoring of informal diagnostic tests; and/or I have participated in developing remedial strategies; and/or I have participated in assessing progress by assisting with retesting. I have used other’s specific interpretation of informal test results to assess progress of student/inmate to place student/inmate in appropriate class/group; and/or I have used remedial strategies based upon specific curriculum; and/or I have observed classroom activities with others. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a bachelor's from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that included or was supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. OR I have a combination of education and experience--Applicants who have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree, but who do not meet the specific course requirements shown above meet minimum qualification requirements if they have completed at least one full academic year of professional teaching experience at the elementary or secondary school level as appropriate to the position to be filled. Professional teaching experience is defined as full and primary responsibility for the instruction of assigned students under general supervision in a recognized or accredited school or other accredited educational institution. This includes responsibility for preparation and presentation of lessons and the evaluation of students' progress throughout the learning period, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria. OR I have a teacher certification or licensure in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants using Option A or B to qualify MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants using Option C to qualify, MUST submit proof of Teacher certification or licensure. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Teachers must possess good skills to communicate with students/inmates in a correctional setting as well as a variety of other individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted tutor training sessions; and/or I have given introductory presentation to new students/inmates; and/or I have counseled a student/inmate who requested educational assistance; and/or I have researched and shared information with peers. I have briefed management and/or others on information pertaining to student/inmate education; and/or I have communicated with outside organization/individuals in an effort to enhance classroom instruction; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution. I have presented overview of program area for Agency staff; and/or I have spoken to members from trade advisory board or citizen volunteer groups; and/or I have provided oral updates regarding specific area during formal meeting with supervisor/managers; and/or I have discussed enrollment procedures and course curriculum; and/or I have discussed progress with students/inmates or education review team. None of the above. 4 Teachers work in a correctional setting providing instruction to individuals from various backgrounds. He/she conducts and documents initial and progressive education interviews. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in development and implementation of course objectives for others; and/or I have assisted in implementing assessment tools for others; and/or I have assisted in creating supplemental activities for others; and/or I have assisted in identifying learning strategies and materials for others. Using curriculum developed by others, I have taught students/inmates from various backgrounds; and/or I have encouraged open discussions with students/inmates of various cultures/backgrounds; and/or I have used supplemental activities developed by others to integrate different content and perspectives. I have developed curriculum appropriate for students/inmates of various backgrounds; and/or I have developed supplemental activities in order to integrate different content and perspective; and/or I have independently developed and tailored motivational techniques for varying student/inmate population. None of the above. 5 Teachers must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner, as he/she has contact with institution, regional and Central Office staff via written communication.&nbsp; He/she must prepare documents and correspondence related to educational needs and programs, as well as prepare information memoranda for the student/inmate population.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written new procedures for program for Supervisor’s review; and/or I have provided written information for Supervisor to be included in a group email to others in response to various educational inquiries; and/or I have identified remedial needs and interests of the students/inmates and documented needs for Supervisor; and/or I have documented student/inmate progress for Supervisor through written reports and re-testing. I have participated in an internal audit and documented findings; and/or I have as part of a group, updated local policies; and/or I have assisted others with developing and issuing guidance related to new procedures or hours of operation for the department or organization; and/or I have contributed written documentation for part of a newsletter. I have provided written input for various education reports; and/or I have prepared response to written requests from other departments; and/or I have prepared response to complex student/inmate inquiry. None of the above. 6 Teachers develop and modify curricula to meet the various learning needs of students/inmates. He/she uses his/her knowledge of curriculum design to develop courses appropriate for adult learners. He/she may modify curriculum by creating supplemental activities and assessing student/inmate progress. He/she may teach in multiple program areas, and therefore, develop lessons using interactive audiovisual aides, group discussion, and computer-assisted instruction with modifications for a variety of students/inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in development and implementation of course objectives for others; and/or I have assisted in implementing assessment tools for others; and/or I have assisted in creating supplemental activities for others; and/or I have assisted in identifying learning strategies and materials for others. I have assisted others in modifying course objectives; and/or I have assisted master teachers with administering assessment tools to determine entering skills; and/or I have assisted in the selection of the curriculum. I have as a group member, modified course objectives; and/or as a group member, I have identified entrance assessment tools; and/or I have modified course material as a group member. None of the above. 7 Teachers utilize a variety of assessment measures to develop effective education plans for his/her students/inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in selecting, administering and scoring informal classroom assessments; and/or I have used remedial strategies suggested by others; and/or I have assessed progress through informal measures. I have participated with the administration and scoring of informal diagnostic tests; and/or I have participated in developing remedial strategies; and/or I have participated in assessing progress by assisting with retesting. I have selected, administered and scored informal diagnostic tests for specific classes; and/or I have interpreted assessment results; and/or I have independently developed a variety of appropriate remedial strategies for own use; and/or I have assessed progress using formal and informal measures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).