Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Do you have experience working as a team leader for employees performing painting tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which activities have you performed as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Assigned tasks to employees, taking into account workload and skill levels Reviewed completed work to ensure instructions were followed Encouraged employees to participate in team planning activities Communicated information to employees regarding work requirements and timelines Monitored work progress Provided technical direction to team members in accomplishing tasks None of the above 4 Select the procedures you have used to repair minor imperfections in wood surfaces. Answer to this question is required Graining Sanding Spot Priming Surfacing Sealing Knots Filling Imperfections Feathering Imperfections by Sanding None of the above 5 Which response best describes your highest level of refinishing experience? Answer to this question is required I have not performed refinishing. I have completed training on refinishing but have not performed it at work. I have refinished a feature that was somewhat hidden from sight (e.g., baseboard in a closet). I have rebuilt the corner of a piece of furniture using wood putty. I have refinished a substantial feature or piece of furniture that was highly visible or historic. 6 Which decorative finishing/painting techniques have you performed? Answer to this question is required Marbleizing Striping Glazing Graining Sponging None of the above 7 Have you performed journey level painting-refinishing work in a historically significant environment requiring meticulous attention to detail? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 What types of surfaces have you applied paint? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Wood Metal Glass Synthetic Concrete Drywall / Plaster Other Surfaces None of the above 9 What kinds of special finishing techniques have you applied? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Marbling Graining Mottling Texturing Color Glazing Fauxing Stenciling Lettering Gilding / Gold Leafing None of the above 10 What types of sealers have you applied? Answer to this question is required Shellac Varnishes Latex Resin Teflon Alcohol and lacquer-based Water-borne polyurethane Primary Sealers Undercoats None of the above 11 Select the equipment that you have used to apply coating. Answer to this question is required Brushes and rollers Conventional sprayers Airless and air-assisted sprayers High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) sprayers None of the above 12 Select the tools that you have used in painting tasks. Answer to this question is required Tape measures Scale ruler T-squares French curves Straight edges Levels Lasers Basic brushes and rollers Putty knives Spray equipment None of the above 13 Select the elevated support products you have used, constructed, erected, and disassembled. Answer to this question is required Scaffolds (Mechanical, ground-based, rolling, stationary, ladder jack) Aerial work platforms Aluminum and wooden planks Extension ladders Swing stages Step ladders None of the above 14 Do you have experience finishing drywall and are you familiar with the tools used to perform the task? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please explain how much experience you have performing this task, where you gained experience performing this task and a brief description of how you performed these tasks. Make sure to list them on your resume Maximum length of 3000 characters. No View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.