Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having Construction Representative experience which demonstrates all of the following: (1) Experience leading and/or providing construction oversight, direction, and coordination of construction projects, including renovations, infrastructure improvements and building upgrade contracts; (2) Working on site with construction teams to plan and coordinate construction projects and to enforce safety, maintain schedules, and to ensure quality standards are maintained; (3) Coordinating quality control inspections and ensuring scope is complete; and (4) Determining risks and making recommendations to mitigate risks through review of construction documents and changing scopes of work. 2 Do you have knowledge of construction work processes and the practices of Architectural/Engineering firms, construction trades, crafts and the significant interrelationships among them, both broadly and within the Washington Metropolitan area? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which&nbsp;certifications, registrations, coursework or degrees do you hold? Answer to this question is required Registered Architect (RA) certification Professional Engineering (PE) certification Historic Preservation degree (Bachelors, Masters or PhD) Historic Preservation course work Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) Certified Construction Manager (CCM) Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification Project Management Professional (PMP) certification Contracting Officer (CO) certification Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) certification None of the above 4 Choose the statement that best describes your experience in managing project controls on construction projects. Answer to this question is required I have distributed project control documents such as RFIs and submittals to reviewers, compiled comments, and returned comments to the contractor for simple projects. I have managed the project control review process including oversight of the design team to ensure that all reviews are performed timely and that the review and workflow of the project control process is performed in accordance with the project plan. Project controls documents are processed and maintained in a dedicated project controls software computer program. I have developed, implemented, and monitored the entire project control process for large complex construction projects and have developed or assisted in the development of custom project control computer software for the project. None of the above. 5 Select the responses that show your experience in management and execution of construction project controls. Answer to this question is required Review, distribute, and respond to Request for Information (RFI), submittals, and shop drawings. Track progress against a baseline schedule. Update and redline shop drawings for changes and RFI responses. Closeout and archive project records. Utilize project management and document control software. Utilize web-based project control software and workflow for collaboration. Provide direction for customization of project controls software to align with best management practices (BMP). None of the above 6 Select the following construction specialty areas you have experience managing. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Architectural work Interior renovations Exterior building repairs Site work Historic preservation New construction Structural work None of the above 7 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous construction projects. Established timelines and milestones for a construction project. Closed out construction projects. Monitored a construction project progress against a bar chart and critical path method schedule. Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance. Resolved construction contractor performance issues. Managed client expectations. None of the above 8 Have you done construction and renovation work on buildings that require historic preservation&nbsp;and/or material conservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you been involved in a phased renovation project with the majority of the building occupied during construction? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which activities have you performed in construction oversight and inspection? Answer to this question is required Construction observation and field reporting Construction compliance inspection and testing Responding to requests for information and design clarification Shop drawing review and approval Reviewing and approving contractor pay requests Prepare/review change order scopes of work Review contract documents to confirm design error or discrepancy Evaluate cost and time impact of change and modify construction schedule Prepare independent estimate of change order cost Negotiate change order cost with contractor None of the above 11 Which response best describes your highest level of experience with construction project schedules? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing construction project schedules. I have completed coursework or training regarding construction project schedules, but do not have on the job experience. I have reviewed construction project schedules for reasonable timeframes and milestones. I have suggested minor changes to construction project timeframes or milestones following my review of the schedule. I have suggested major changes to construction project timeframes or milestones following my review of the schedule and a comparison of the current project with similar, completed projects. I have independently developed construction project timeframes or milestones. 12 Select the response that best describes your experience monitoring construction work for compliance with contract specifications. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience monitoring construction work for compliance with contract specifications. I have completed coursework on techniques for monitoring construction work, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have monitored construction work for compliance with contract specifications and reported deficiencies to a senior employee. I have independently monitored construction work and requested that contractors take action to comply with contract specifications. 13 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval. Justified budgetary expenses. Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions. Completed a construction project within budget limitations. None of the above 14 Select the types of documents you have written for construction projects: Answer to this question is required RFI and Submittal responses to the contractor Safety and Non-Compliance notifications Technical reports Meeting minutes Correspondence and letters Instructional manuals or guidebooks None of the above 15 Have you ever briefed and/or provided presentations to upper-level management and stakeholders on the status of a construction project controls you managed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.