Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in applying collections management practices and principles to a mammal collection? Answer to this question is required I have considerable experience in collections management working in a mammal collection in all of the following areas: registration, cataloging, loans, and curation. I have experience in collections management working in a vertebrate collection in one or more of the following areas: registration, cataloging, loans, curation. I have gained knowledge of collections management principles through experience as a museum technician or equivalent position or through college level coursework. I have not had experience, education or training in this area. 6 Which one of the following best describes the level of your knowledge of vertebrate collections management practices and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have an undergraduate degree in zoology including courses orientated towards mammal collections. I have a graduate degree in zoology including courses orientated towards mammal collections. I have experience working as a museum specialist or equivalent performing collections management, zoological research, and curation of vertebrate specimens. I have experience working as a museum technician, specialist or equivalent performing such activities as plant or animal specimen preparation and cataloging. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with mammalian systematics and classification? Answer to this question is required I have experience in a museum using knowledge of mammalian systematics and classification to organize collections and provide information to outside sources. I have experience in a museum using knowledge of vertebrate systematics and classification to organize collections. I have experience in a non-museum environment using knowledge of mammalian systematics and classification to provide information to outside sources. I have completed formal education or training in this area but have not yet performed this kind of work on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in this area. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in vertebrate anatomy, taxonomy, and zoological techniques? Answer to this question is required I have a high degree of vertebrate anatomy and taxonomic knowledge, and I am well-versed in zoological techniques. I have a good knowledge of vertebrate anatomy and taxonomy, and I am familiar with zoological techniques. I have a basic understanding of vertebrate anatomy and taxonomy. I have a little knowledge of vertebrate anatomy. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your level of experience with the cataloging and registration of software applications used to document collections? Answer to this question is required I have experience with the cataloging and registration of software applications used to document collections in natural history museums or similar environments and I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have experience with the cataloging and registration of software applications used to document collections in natural history museums or similar environments and have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience with the cataloging and registration of software applications used to document collections in natural history museums or similar environments and have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in using a collections management database? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of and hands-on experience with a museum cataloging application such as Specify, KE Emu, or a similar system and I also have experience using software programs to input, store, and manipulate data such as Excel, Access, Microsoft Office suite, or SQL database systems. I have knowledge of and hands-on experience with at least one data management system and software program such as Access, SQL database systems, or KE EMu. I have familiarity with standard applications for word processing, spreadsheets, and relational databases such as Excel, Access, and the Microsoft Office suite. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 11 Which of the following common office software applications are you are proficient in? Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality-capabilities. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Database management software (e.g., Farsight, Access, Filemaker Pro, Paradox, Oracle, Open Office, SQL). E-mail (e.g., Groupwise, CC Mail, Eudora, Lotus Notes, Outlook). Graphics or presentation software (e.g., Power Point, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio) Operating systems (e.g., Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS). Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus, Open Office, Quatro Pro) Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word, Corel Word Perfect) None of the above. 12 Which of the following automated tasks have you performed within the past year? Please remember that your resume will be used to verify this information. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used word processing software to create correspondence, create labels, etc. I have used word processing software to set up footnotes and outline formats and/or table of contents. I have used a database to create tables, queries and/or reports. I have used an e-mail package to maintain scheduled meetings and communicate information (e.g., MS Outlook, Novell Groupwise, or any other Internet-based package). I have edited text and merged documents in a personal computer. I have used a scanner to scan large document productions (e.g., Text Bridge, Paper Port). I have not performed any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience with collecting mammals and preparing mammal specimens? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in collecting mammals and in making all types of mammal specimen preparations (skin, skull, skeleton, fluid-preserved, tissue) in a field setting. I have moderate experience in collecting mammals and in making all types of mammal specimen preparations (skin, skull, skeleton, fluid-preserved, tissue) in a field setting. I have limited experience collecting mammals and preparing mammal specimens (i.e., in a Mammalogy class or in a laboratory setting). I have no actual experience collecting or preparing mammal specimens but may have other field experience. I have not had experience, education, or training in this area. 14 Which of the following types of museum specimens do you have experience handling in a museum or related setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Oversized collections such as large sculptures, machines, or other large artifacts/specimens that require material handling equipment to move. Fluid preserved (alcohol/formalin) biological/vertebrate specimens in jars. Fluid preserved (alcohol/formalin) biological/vertebrate specimens in tanks. Skeletal remains. Skin, fur, or feather covered objects. Vertebrate specimens. Other types of museum specimens. None of the above. 15 Do you have experience building to workmanship and/or inspection standards?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which of the following best describes your level of education in specimen preservation? Answer to this question is required I have had a long-term personal interest I have had courses at the undergraduate level I have had courses at the graduate level I have had other relevant education I have had an internship(s) I have had volunteer or personal experience related to the field I have no educational experience in the field of specimen preservation View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.