Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 What is the highest level for which you have made a decision? Answer to this question is required Organizational level Office/Regional level or equivalent Division level or equivalent Unit level or equivalent Sub-unit level or equivalent None of the above 5 From the following list, select the types of decisions you made: Answer to this question is required Hiring Personnel Termination Reorganization Policy Budget formulation Project scope Program initiation and/or termination None of the above 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 7 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 8 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience developing briefings for senior management officials including analyses, conclusions, and recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your highest level of education, training and/or experience in applying knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents to assess programs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have routinely and independently performed this task on a regular basis as part of the job. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. 11 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 12 Select the types of tasks, tools, or techniques you have used in a compliance investigation setting: Answer to this question is required Conducted analysis and exercised judgment that involved matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Conducted analysis and exercised judgment beyond matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Collected compliance information through observation, interview, and/or examination of records. Collected compliance information through the use of statistical sampling methods. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to situations found during the course of an investigation. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to complex situations that required follow up or further investigation. None of the above. 13 Select the tasks you have performed in inspecting, investigating, negotiating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance or enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of reported violations, policy exceptions, debarment decisions or other legal, regulatory or administrative actions. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Conducted onsite inspections, surveys or visits to assess compliance with laws, regulations or executive orders. Conducted investigations to substantiate alleged or suspected instances or patterns of non-compliance. Conducted negotiations with persons or organizations whose activities have not been in compliance. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Reviewed and identified documents and other open source information sources to identify knowledge or information gaps to determine whether a violation has occurred. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 14 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 15 In which of the following do you have education, training, or experience? Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Arbitration Counseling Coaching None of the above 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 17 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recruitment and hiring. Assigning duties to employees. Reviewing assigned work of employees. Providing training to new and current staff members. Approving and disapproving leave requests. Developing performance expectations. Evaluating performance of employees. Resolving internal conflicts or problems amongst staff members. Coaching, mentoring, and employee development. None of the above. 18 Which of the following best describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 19 Do you have experience in workforce planning and analysis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues: Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have dealt with issues where no agreement could be reached and ensured problem resolution through other administrative actions. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and resolving problems. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, diffusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solution on controversial issues. 21 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or programs` goals. None of the above. 22 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving speaking and presenting information: Answer to this question is required Delivered presentations to groups of 1 to 20 persons. Delivered presentations to groups of 20 to 100 persons. Delivered presentations to groups over 100 persons. Delivered presentations to hostile or adversarial audiences. Briefed senior management. Briefed a Board of Directors or similar governing body. Presented at professional conferences or seminars. Presented at division or office staff meetings or conferences. Presented at inter-agency meetings. Presented at industry or trade group meetings. Served as an expert witness or gave testimony in a legal proceeding. None of the above. 23 Select the types of investigative or compliance work products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Background files on pertinent intelligence information, analytical techniques and procedures for assessing intelligence information. Papers and documents relating to the interpretation of laws and regulations. Guidelines to increase the effectiveness of laws and regulations. Publications of notices in the Federal Register. Documents outlining opinions and findings and making substantive policy and/or operational recommendations to senior level officials. Diplomatic cables or other official `demarche` instruction. Letter for higher level signature that responds to all elements of a compliance case, including requirements for corrective action. Report of findings. Briefing materials on compliance and/or investigative issues. Tips or `how to` modules on the laws, regulations, office functions, policies and/or procedures. Audit or visit reports. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.