Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following do you have safety training in? Answer to this question is required OSHA 10 PPE Confined Space Asbestos Lead Respiratory None of the above 2 Do you have experience leading or supervising employees in the performance of specialty woodworking or carpentry work? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a wood crafter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have performed wood crafting activities under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently performed wood crafting activities. I have led others and provided instruction on proper procedures to perform wood crafting activities. None of the above. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who perform wood crafter activities, such as creating, altering, installing, and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical wood crafting work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 5 What skills do you use to curve and shape wood surfaces? Answer to this question is required Laminating Veneering Plastic Overlaying Steam Bending Grain Matching None of the Above 6 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing wood work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out carpentry work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Determined work sequences and types of lumber and special related materials needed to complete assigned projects. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber and/or wood substitute materials required and the type of tools to use for the job. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. None of the above. 7 What source documents and/or instructions and references have you used to ensure compliance with building codes, objectives, timeliness, and quality of workmanship? Answer to this question is required Building plans Building codes Blueprints Drawings Sketches Written instructions Work orders Specifications None of the above 8 What tools have you used to perform precise, intricate carpentry and woodcraft work? Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill presses Sanders Mortises Dado blades Engravers / CNC None of the above 9 Do you have experience altering existing furniture to meet customer needs, such as reducing the size of a desk to fit available space? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience operating Computer Numerical Control (CNC) equipment? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training on operating CNC equipment but have not yet applied it to completing professional craft work. I have operated CNC equipment to complete professional craft work under close supervision or with assistance from other workers. I have independently operated CNC equipment to achieve desired results. I have provided guidance and instruction to others on how to operate CNC equipment. None of the above 11 Select the types of Computerized Numerical Control (CNC) software you have programmed to operate computerized tools and equipment (e.g., shaper, router). Answer to this question is required AlphaCam Cabinet Vision Software based on G-Code (standardized programming language) None of the above 12 From the following list, select the types of woodworking products you have used on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes Solid surfaces None of the above 13 Select the factors you have considered when selecting a species of wood for a project. Answer to this question is required Durability Grade of wood Indoor/outdoor application Planned finishing method Style of existing wood elements None of the above 14 Do you have experience selecting wood species to match the appearance of wood items when making repairs? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 How have you assisted with maintaining an inventory of tools and equipment? Answer to this question is required Notified a supervisor when supplies were damaged or running low Placed inventory/tracking numbers on tools or equipment Placed inventory in the correct storage place Organized tools or equipment according to inventory plan None of the above 16 Which tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Reading and responding to email communications Requesting leave/time off Reviewing work orders Saving documents and files Retrieving documents and files Tracking amount of time spent on a project/job Documenting customer needs or project specifications None of the above 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.