Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act. 30% or More Disabled Veteran. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT, by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Deputy Chief, Staffing and Employee Relations Section will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports and correspondence for internal and external use. &nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, Office of Personnel Management officials, agency executives, managers, line staff and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written documentation which justified agency/institution/organization action during a third party hearing; and/or I have written agency/institution/organization response to an United States Merit Systems Protection Board appeal, grievance action, or bargaining issues; and/or I have independently prepared written proposals for negotiations; and/or I have independently written/prepared technical documentation and correspondence which were utilized without change; and/or I have written materials used in management or human resource training courses; and/or I have prepared written explanations to managers regarding staffing issues or qualification problems; and/or I have prepared memorandums to regional office or field locations on staffing procedures; and/or I have responded to Department of Justice on proposed or draft regulations. I have written memorandums for informational purposes; and/or I have responded to employee inquiries regarding routine appointment information or performance issues; and/or I have prepared standard memorandums or correspondence for supervisory review and signature. I have prepared a Program Review response; and/or I have revised local policy; and/or I have written a comprehensive Operational Review report; and/or I have reviewed and revised crediting plans for unique positions; and/or I have written Congressional responses for management on local issues; and/or I have submitted justifications for Bureau-wide awards; and/or I have drafted proposal and decision letters for adverse/disciplinary action; and/or I have prepared written response to employees’ staffing or benefits inquiries. None of the above. 5 The Deputy Chief, Staffing and Employee Relations Section communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. &nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and/or persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons . &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed regional administrators, section heads and others during teleconferences on issues relative to staffing, leave administration or performance; and/or I have communicated with Department of Justice officials for interpretation of staffing or performance issues; and/or I have provided clarification or guidance to field personnel; and/or I have served in leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have served on labor negotiation team; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues. I have taught training courses on human resource programs; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures; and/or I have trained supervisors on preparing performance lesson plans; and/or I have kept supervisor advised of technical program changes; and/or I have provided advice to less experienced staff on staffing or performance issues; and/or I have participated as a member of a workgroup or task force; and/or I have responded to questions from the field or regional staff on technical staffing, incentive or performance issues. I have contacted others to gather information for inclusion on recurring reports; and/or I have provided workload status reports during departmental meetings; and/or I have provided guidance to co-workers or subordinates on work processes; and/or I have updated supervisor on status of routine work assignments. I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/Chief Executive Officers, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have served as the local expert in recommending to management possible disciplinary options in specific cases; and/or I have advised top management staff on complex human resource issues (i.e., appointment options or performance problems); and/or I have testified on the agency’s behalf during legal/arbitration proceedings. None of the above. 6 The Deputy Chief, Staffing and Employee Relations Section assists in the responsibility of reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans and programs relative to federal staffing procedures, performance, and incentives for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have used available automated systems to pull statistical data to include in a proposal; and/or I have analyzed, evaluated and recommended a controversial incentive; and/or I have researched issues and provided opinion to upper management regarding a variety of technical and complex staffing actions, incentive determinations or waiver determinations, etc.; and/or I have developed staffing or performance policy updates based on changes in governing laws or regulations. I have analyzed and provided comments on proposed staffing or performance regulations for inclusion in final findings to Office of Personnel Management or employing agency; and/or I have researched staffing regulations and appropriately appointed staff utilizing incentives; and/or I have researched and analyzed Office of Personnel Management/agency regulations and provided recommendations for changes to existing policies and procedures; and/or I have reviewed paperwork submitted by management to ensure staffing principles are maintained; and/or I have analyzed, evaluated and submitted incentives for non-controversial positions. I have researched routine performance issues and provided guidance to employees; and/or I have accurately applied staffing rules and regulations to routine appointments; and/or I have discussed/advised managers on proposed use of awards/recognition in institution, department. None of the above. 7 The Deputy Chief, Staffing and Employee Relations Section is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. &nbsp; He/she directly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have provided feedback to subordinates on long- and short-term projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. None of the above. 8 The Deputy Chief, Staffing and Employee Relations Section is responsible for the development, planning and administration of consolidated programs for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. &nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive knowledge of the policies and procedures regulating these areas to effectively manage, develop and implement program direction . &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured the active retention, relocation, recruitment and placement of hard to fill positions and locations; and/or I have briefed top management on major human resource or training initiatives and recommended options for local implementation; and/or I have initiated studies to determine the immediate and long range staffing needs of an institution. I have made qualifications determinations for technical positions; and/or I have requested appointments above the minimum rate; and/or I have conducted pre employment interviews and made suitability determinations; and/or I have processed objections on certificates of eligibles which sustained third party review; and/or I have advised employees on various appointment schedules; and/or I have researched and provided documentation for an Equal Employment Opportunity case; and/or I have reclassified positions following issuance on a new classification standard. I have identified ways to assist in solving problems of morale, excessive turnover, low production and under utilization of employees’ skills and abilities; and/or I have advised management on complex staff accommodation/disability issues; and/or I have researched and interpreted technical policies to resolve a controversial human resource issue; and/or I have drafted a local institutional supplement on an human resource topic; and/or I have provided input for a management assessment to determine needed changes to policy; and/or I have provided response or served as a representative during a United States Merit Systems Protection Board case. I have served as human resource liaison providing technical support to other locations; and/or I have overseen the processing of basic personnel actions; and/or I have advised a field office on incentives or performance issues; and/or I have participated in Program/Operational Reviews; and/or I have maintained and updated awards information and conducted incentives award meeting; and/or I have monitored or maintained performance logs for Executive Staff and others. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).