Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing archival collections and applying policies and procedures relative to development, establishment, administration, and long-range planning for the expansion, improvement, use, security, and stewardship of collections of historic significance? Answer to this question is required I have 6 years or more experience in creating and applying policies and procedures to provide for the care and maintenance of an archival collection as a regular part of my job. I have experience in managing day-to-day activities in an archives. I have provided for the care and maintenance of collections throughout a large museum or educational institution. I have completed college level courses and focused on the collections management practices of archives/museums/cultural institutions. None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in creating and/or implementing an archives policy? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in creating an archives policy, but I have not yet done it on the job I have assisted with the creation of an archives policy I have not created an archives policy, but I have implemented one I have created and implemented an archives policy as a part of my job None of the above 4 Which of the following types of partnership development plans have you designed and implemented to increase or strengthen partnership, community engagement, and collaboration? &nbsp; (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required Strategic thinking and planning Program development and implementation Museum Collections Evaluation and learning Resource development Developing innovative partnerships Short- and long-term collaboration projects with community stakeholders None of the above 5 Which of the following statements describes the communication/briefing skills you use as a regular part of your job, as necessary, to support agency goals and the agency leadership for a museum or cultural institution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have regularly communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in writing or in presentations. I have explained or justified agency decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have briefed managers outside the organization on agency goals and objectives. I have demonstrated ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals. I have mediated problems and facilitated a resolution between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal setting. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take particular courses or action. I have communicated strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have presented, advocated, or negotiated specific goals and needs. I have delivered training presentations to varied audiences of different sizes. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with collaborative projects and partnerships among organizations and across departments? Answer to this question is required I have experience in managing collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners in a museum or cultural institution setting. I have experience in managing collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with external partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with internal partners. I do not have any experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships. 7 Which of the following describes your experience with project management for a museum or other cultural heritage organization?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience as a project manager for a museum or other cultural heritage organization. I have experience as a project manager for an organization. I have no experience as a project manager. 8 Which of the following describes your experience working with a program between external collaborators and a museum, other cultural heritage organization, or grant program?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience as a program administrator for a program between external collaborators and a museum, other cultural heritage organization, or grant program. I have experience as a program administrator for a program at a museum, other cultural heritage organization, or grant program. I have experience working for program between external collaborators and a museum, other cultural heritage organization, or grant program. I have experience working for a museum, cultural heritage organization, or grant program. I have no experience working for a museum, other cultural heritage organization, or grant program. 9 What is your role in working with multiple stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I manage a department with staff who manage other staff working with a variety of stakeholders. I work with a variety of stakeholders. I support staff who work with a variety of stakeholders. I do not work with a variety of stakeholders. 10 Which best describes your leadership and participation on project teams, specifically your ability to coordinate aspects of the work and influence its outcomes (please check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience coordinating aspects of a team’s work as they develop learning opportunities. I have regularly influenced the outcomes of collaborative work. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships, but only with only external partners. I do not have experience coordinating aspects of a team’s work or influencing its outcomes. 11 Indicate the highest level of experience you have leading or supervising teams. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams to accomplish a common goal. I have experience working as a member of a team. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned formal leadership responsibilities. I have supervised the work of people assigned to me to complete a specific project or task. I have experience leading teams that require solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have held a team leader position over a group of employees or acted in the absence of the supervisor. I have held a full-time supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of others. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.