Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have completed one (1) year of graduate level education (18 semester/27 quarter hours) with courses such as history, science, and/or public speaking. I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed education and experience that may be used to meet the experience requirements. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience providing assistance to customers in a retail, hospitality, or a museum environment; answering basic questions that arise from customers' inquiries; and ensuring the safety of customers, when necessary. 2 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience solving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I have identified customer service problems and notified senior employees for resolution. I generated ideas and proposed solutions to customer service problems. I independently developed and implemented solutions to resolve customer service problems. I provided guidance to others on how to resolve customer service problems. None of the above. 3 Which issues have you encountered and resolved in your professional experience? Answer to this question is required Facility maintenance needs Customers who are late for reservations or appointments Customers seeking a product or service that is no longer available Customers who request products or services outside of policy Customers who violate policies or standard procedures None of the above 4 Which policies or rules have you orally communicated to visitors or customers? Answer to this question is required No food or drinks in the facility Silence phones Restrictions on photography or video Limited or no availability of a product or service (e.g., tickets, reservations) Refrain from touching artwork Appropriate tone and volume for conversations Stay with the tour group None of the above 5 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience orally communicating information to others (e.g., customers). Answer to this question is required I adhered to a standard script to provide informational announcements. I delivered informational presentations on standardized topics in a format and style of my choosing. I customized standardized presentation topics by including information such as points of interest, details, jokes, or interactive content. I developed original presentations based on my own or other`s research. None of the above. 6 Select the oral communication activities you have performed. Answer to this question is required Worked at a front desk or other position where I served as a primary point-of-contact for customers Presented information as a teacher or instructor in structured learning environments Actively participated in Toastmasters meetings and workshops Worked as a tour guide Served as a public speaker on behalf of a group None of the above 7 Do you have experience responding to impromptu questions accurately in unstructured settings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select the types of individuals you have worked with on a team to accomplish goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Individuals with a different level of skill than my own Individuals from a different technical discipline than my own Individuals with a different level of education than my own Individuals from a different culture than my own Individuals whose native language is different from my own Individuals from a different socio-economic status than my own Individuals from a different generation than my own None of the above 9 Select the types of individuals you have interacted with to ensure rules, policies, and procedures were followed. Answer to this question is required Parents or chaperones responsible for children Children Individuals who didn`t speak English fluently Elderly individuals Strongly opinionated or stubborn individuals High-status individuals (e.g., Members of Congress) None of the above 10 Which strategies have you applied to interact with people from diverse backgrounds? Answer to this question is required Asking questions to clarify information Gathering information about the person`s interests and preferences Approaching people who look confused or disoriented to offer assistance Observing individuals to determine if support services are needed Offering the use of assistive devices (e.g., wheelchairs, audio tours) None of the above 11 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked Offered coverage to ensure others received a break Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality was maintained Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets) None of the above 12 Do you have experience remaining calm and professional when interacting with difficult or demanding individuals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which tasks have you performed to assess customer needs? Answer to this question is required Monitored customer comments or conversations for negative information Observed customer body language Monitored customer facial expressions Observed customer mobility or physical capabilities Determined customer`s ability to communicate in English Elicited information from customers about expectations or satisfaction Proactively asked customers if they needed assistance None of the above 14 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by explaining policy to customers. I offered customers alternative solutions within policy limitations to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 15 Which customer service roles have you performed? Answer to this question is required Call center representative Hotel concierge or desk clerk Information booth Museum docent Usher at an arena event (e.g., sporting events, concerts) Tour guide Travel guide Retail associate (e.g., cashier) Personal shopper or salesperson Restaurant host or server None of the above 16 Which tasks have you performed to assist customers? Answer to this question is required Greeting or welcoming customers Signing in or logging visitors Confirming reservations or appointment times Answering questions about operational offerings and procedures Assisting customers seeking a specific item or information Directing customers to specific locations Providing brochures or forms None of the above 17 Do you have experience identifying and addressing customer needs to ensure that disabilities or language barriers do not detract from their experience of a facility, event, or service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Which activities have you performed to provide service to customers or visitors? Answer to this question is required Orienting visitors to the location, facility, or amenities Leading a guided tour Providing basic information about services (e.g., hours of operation, directions to location) Requesting compliance with unpopular or unwelcome policies (e.g., no food in facility, cell phones off) Providing information about other related attractions or amenities Explaining the significance of policies Explaining delays or changes in plans Advising customers or visitors of estimated wait time Assisting customers seeking a specific item or information None of the above 19 Do you have experience maintaining a positive demeanor and conversational tone when providing repetitive information to others (e.g., answering the same questions throughout the day)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.