Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 [343] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-14 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [34769] Select the statement that best describes your demonstrated work experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to measure and improve program operations and organizational productivity. Answer to this question is required I have education and training in adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to measure and improve program operations and/or organizational productivity, but have not applied this knowledge at work. I have experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to measure and improve program operations and/or organizational productivity, usually under the direction of a supervisor or a senior employee. I have experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to measure and improve program operations and/or organizational productivity, while seeking advice only for complex issues. I have experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to measure and improve program operations and/or organizational productivity, without direct supervision. I have extensive demonstrated work experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to measure and improve program operations and/or organizational productivity. I am considered an expert, and my organization relies on me to resolve complex related issues. None of the above. 3 [62857]Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in analyzing and evaluating organizational processes, systems and data, and developing effective advisory tools to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of oversight decision-making processes. Answer to this question is required I have education and training in analyzing and evaluating organizational processes and data, and developing effective advisory tools to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of oversight decision-making processes, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have performed some segments of work in the analysis and evaluation of organizational processes and data, and developed effective advisory tools to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of oversight decision-making processes, usually under the direction of a supervisor or a senior employee. I have independently performed work in the analysis and evaluation of organizational processes and data, and developed effective advisory tools to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of oversight decision-making processes, while seeking help or advice only for complex issues. I have independently conducted an operations research project that involved the analysis and evaluation of organizational processes and data, and developed effective advisory tools to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of oversight decision-making processes, without direct supervision. I have advanced knowledge and extensive demonstrated work experience in the analysis and evaluation of organizational processes and data, and have developed effective advisory tools to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of oversight decision-making processes. My organization relies on me as a technical lead in the analysis and evaluation of complex organizational processes, and in the development of complex information tools. None of the above. 4 [26709] Select the statement that best describes your experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to assess and improve program operations, organizational productivity, and organizational culture. Answer to this question is required I have education and training in adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to assess and improve program operations, organizational productivity, and/or organizational culture, but have not applied this knowledge at work. I have experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to assess and improve program operations, organizational productivity, and/or organizational culture, usually under the direction of a supervisor or a senior employee. I have experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to assess and improve program operations, organizational productivity, and/or organizational culture, while seeking help or advice only for complex issues. I have experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria assess and improve program operations, organizational productivity, and/or organizational culture, without direct supervision. I have extensive demonstrated work experience adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to assess and improve program operations, organizational productivity, and/or organizational culture. I am considered an expert, and my organization relies on me to resolve complex related issues. None of the above 5 [58849] Select the response that best describes your experience improving and implementing centralized work processes, creating project plans; tracking milestones and commitments, and developing executive-level tracking reports to ensure program success and fulfillment of outlined goals for at least a year. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience improving and implementing centralized work processes, creating project plans; tracking milestones and commitments, and developing executive-level tracking reports to ensure program success and fulfillment of outlined goals. I have experience improving and implementing centralized work processes, creating project plans; tracking milestones and commitments, and developing executive-level tracking reports to ensure program success and fulfillment of outlined goals, but have not applied it on the job. I have experience improving and implementing centralized work processes, creating project plans; tracking milestones and commitments, and developing executive-level tracking reports to ensure program success and fulfillment of outlined goals, but have required assistance from a senior employee or supervisor. I have experience improving and implementing centralized work processes, creating project plans; tracking milestones and commitments, and developing executive-level tracking reports to ensure program success and fulfillment of outlined goals as part of my regular duties of my position. I have experience providing oversight and supervision to a team responsible for improving and implementing centralized work processes, creating project plans; tracking milestones and commitments, and developing executive-level tracking reports to ensure program success and fulfillment of outlined goals. 6 [29808] Do you have experience in managing and administering contracts after award to include evaluating and negotiating modifications, managing contractor performance against contract requirements, managing all financial aspects of the contract, and closing out the contract using the Federal Acquisition Regulation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [19728] Select the statements that describe your experience with program evaluation standards, principles, and methods. Answer to this question is required I have a general understanding of the standards, principles and methods of program evaluation. I have training or education on program evaluation methods. I have participated in seminars, conferences, or workshops on program evaluation. I have applied program evaluation standards, principles and methods through one or more program evaluations. I have participated in program evaluations to assess the design, implementation, or effectiveness of existing programs. I have participated in program evaluations to help develop new programs. I have led one or more program evaluations. I am an active member of one or more professional associations related to program evaluation. None of the above 8 [34268] Select statement best describing your experience with performance planning and measurement, and/or risk assessment. Answer to this question is required I have led the development of performance plan and measures, and/or risk assessment. I have assisted in the development of performance plan and measures, and/or risk assessments. I have been trained or have work experience in applying risk assessment and/or risk management theories. I have received college or post college formal training (other than on-the-job training) and have work experience in risk assessment or risk management. I have no experience in this area. 9 [55817] Choose the statement that best describes your experience monitoring and preparing procurement tracking reports that include tracking the status of due dates, cost, schedules, and other contract related financial and program data. Answer to this question is required I have no education, experience, or training monitoring and preparing procurement tracking reports. I have completed formal education or training monitoring and preparing procurement tracking reports, but have not yet performed this task on a job. I have monitored and prepared procurement tracking reports that include tracking the status of due dates, cost, schedules, and other contract related financial and program data on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct guidelines and procedures. I have monitored and prepared procurement tracking reports that include tracking the status of due dates, cost, schedules, and other contract related financial and program data as a regular and recurring part of a job with minimal supervision. In addition to number 4, monitoring and preparing procurement tracking reports that include tracking the status of due dates, cost, schedules, and other contract related financial and program data have been a major part of my job and I have trained others in the performance of this task OR others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 [55737] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your project/program management experience. Answer to this question is required I have advised, consulted with and/or negotiated with customers on delivery of projects or programs. I have set goals and objectives for accomplishment of projects or programs. I have planned resources, delivery schedules, and milestones. I have monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishments. I have established and monitored delivery performance measures. I have established and monitored program delivery productivity. I have established and monitored program delivery cost controls. I have established and monitored quality control and quality assurance processes. I have developed the annual work plan, objectives, priorities, workload of resources and schedules for accomplishment of work plans. I have applied quality management and strategic improvement techniques. I have recommended and implemented new technologies and innovative approaches to meet customer needs. I have solicited, monitored, measured, and responded to customer satisfaction feedback from partners, stakeholders, clients, contractors, etc. I have little or no experience in project management. None of the above. 11 [4556] Select the response(s) that demonstrate the types of audiences for which you have routinely presented reports, findings, and recommendations. Answer to this question is required Management level staff presentations National conference presentations Delivered training courses General public presentations Senior level staff presentations Internal peer level staff presentations Public or private organizational presentations External staff presentations None of the above 12 [4802] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills. Answer to this question is required I have interacted with internal and external customers. I have described rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have made presentations and/or providing classroom training. My written communication skills include internal/external correspondence; reports include financial reports, interpretive analysis, policy guidance. I have written documents and/or correspondence clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively for varied audiences. None of the above. 13 [3082] Choose the statement that best describes your experience expressing technical ideas in writing, including writing and editing engineering test reports and test procedures. Answer to this question is required I have no experience expressing technical ideas in writing. I have not authored any test reports or test procedures. I have not authored any engineering reports or test procedures but I have prepared other types of reports or technical correspondence. I have authored technical reports and given presentations at conferences or to large audiences. I have experience in written communication dealing with motor vehicle safety. I have authored technical reports on motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment and developed test procedures related to motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment. I have given presentations at conferences or to large audiences. 14 [56816] Select the statement that best describes your experience in preparing written materials such as technical reports, functional statements, statements of work, briefing papers, and correspondence (and other materials) to various individuals and audiences. Answer to this question is required I have prepared written documents, such as transmittal memos and e-mail, recipients are usually within my immediate organization. I have prepared technical reports, statements of work, and briefing papers, recipients are usually within my organization. I have prepared written technical reports, functional statements, statements of work, briefing papers, and correspondence (and other materials) to individuals and organizations outside my own organization, including customers, and middle or senior management within or outside of the organization. I have prepared written materials on issues such as technical reports, functional statements, statements of work, briefing papers, testimonies and correspondence (and other materials) involving issues or projects of a sensitive and controversial nature, and recipients are a wide range of individuals and groups both within and outside the organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 14 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 14.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 14.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 14.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).