Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Bachelor&rsquo;s or graduate/higher level degree in therapeutic recreation, art therapy, drama therapy, dance therapy, or music therapy; OR B. Bachelor&rsquo;s or graduate/higher level degree in a related field involving therapeutic emphasis or concentration that included at least 36 semester hours in therapeutic courses as described below: a. 18 semester hours of therapeutic recreation courses; AND b. 18 semester hours that include a combination of abnormal psychology, physiology, human anatomy and development, disabilities and general recreation Education must have been obtained from an accredited program recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum qualifications, you must have one year of specialized experience at,&nbsp;or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, OR meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Recreation Therapist must document and maintain current records of treatment and programs given to patients.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed patient medical records to determine treatment needs, recorded progress, functioning and intervention outcomes, while ensuring data is current and legible; and/or I have maintained current records of treatment and programs given, to include monitoring and determining effectiveness of interventions; and/or I have revised plans as necessary to ensure goals and plans are documented consistent with policy and professional guidelines; and/or I have prepared individual/group program plans. I have reviewed patient medical records to determine treatment needs, recorded progress and functioning and intervention outcomes; and/or I have prepared post-discharge follow-up plans; and/or I have assisted in the development of written treatment plans. I have used medical terminology in order to accurately document health conditions; and/or I have developed treatment plans as a member of a multi-disciplinary treatment team; and/or I have as a member of a multi-disciplinary treatment team, prepared written reports for supervisory review for completeness, accuracy, and conformance with prescribed administrative and professional practices; and/or I have maintained written activity logs to document participation and daily program hours. None of the above. 5 The Recreation Therapist must interact with other medical and mental health staff to provide continuity of patient care and to ensure effective treatment planning.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed issues encountered with team members while assigning uncooperative individuals to programs, teams or groups; and/or I have met with physicians to discuss changes which may affect classification of patients and objectives of the medical program; and/or I have discussed effectiveness of interventions with team members and revised treatment plans as necessary; and/or I have explained treatment in language patient understands; and/or I have determined patients’ interests, attitudes and abilities through interview, testing and observation; and/or I have facilitated therapeutic programs for physically disabled, medical patients, and/or mental health patients. I have worked with groups in ways that encouraged participation; and/or I have worked with other health care professionals to plan and administer treatment; and/or I have provided instruction for patients obtaining patients’ cooperation. I have resolved issues encountered while assigning uncooperative individuals to programs, teams or groups; and/or I have discussed test results and implication for treatment planning with physicians; and/or I have met with physicians to advise on changes which may affect classification of patients and objectives of the medical program; and/or I have developed unique or innovative methods or techniques to improve communications with patients; and/or I have conducted training for new Recreation Therapy staff; and/or I have gave presentations about recreation therapy programs to medical staff and staff from other departments who may refer patients to program. None of the above. 6 The Recreation Therapist plans and coordinates individual and group therapeutic recreation programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a familiarity with theories and concepts of therapeutic recreation, leisure, social psychology and human development; and/or I have experienced working with limited populations and diagnostic groups with no secondary complications; and/or I have implemented treatment plans developed by others. I have used extensive knowledge of theories and concepts of therapeutic recreation, leisure, social psychology and human development; and/or I have experienced working with a varying population including cultural and diagnostic groups, including assessment of etiology, symptomatology, cognitive, physical, social sensory, communication and psychiatric impairments, prognosis, treatment of conditions and related secondary complications; and/or I have experienced with the intervention planning process to include treatment plan design and development, innovative types of programs, and selection of program to achieve the assessed needs and methods for behavior change; and/or I have developed innovative treatment programs for patients with complex conditions which required more than standardized approaches. I have used general knowledge of theories and concepts of therapeutic recreation, leisure, social psychology and human development; and/or I have experienced working with a specific population including those with medical or psychiatric problems with few, if any, secondary complications; and/or I have used standardized treatment plan design and development. None of the above. 7 The Recreation Therapist must be able to design and administer therapeutic recreation programs for severely disabled patients and mental health patients to plan a course for rehabilitation.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and/or implemented a full range of recreation/leisure programs and therapeutic objectives for physically disabled persons, for patients with a variety of illnesses, and/or for mental health patients; and/or I have adapted existing program for each patient; and/or I have assessed, treated and evaluated the needs of the patient. I have led/administered classes and/or group sessions, for physically disabled persons; and/or I have administered recreation/leisure programs for medical patients; and/or I have led recreation programs for mental health patients. I have designed, implemented, and, on occasion, supervised a full range of treatment and therapeutic objectives for physically disabled persons, for patients with a variety of illnesses, and for mental health patients; and/or I have adapted a specialized program for each patient; and/or I have evaluated the effectiveness of each program, modifying as needed to meet patient therapeutic needs. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).