Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-12 level in the federal service, ensuring compliance with policies and regulatory guidance on federal labor and employee relations functions. Answer to this question is required True False 2 As a HR Specialist (Employee and Labor Relations), which of the following have you performed? Answer to this question is required Coached or counseled supervisors on performance and conduct concerns. Provided advice and technical assistance in the handling of disciplinary and adverse actions, performance-based actions, performance improvement plans, and other issues where the primary focus relates to ER. Drafted, finalized, and processed medical letters, adverse actions, performance-based actions, and management responses to grievances, consistent with pertinent laws, rules, regulations, collective bargaining agreements, and/or internal policies. Researched case law developments and provided management with timely, accurate and sound advice in employee and labor relations areas. Conducted fact-findings, reviews, and/or investigations of employee concerns and/or allegations of misconduct consistent with existing policies and procedures. Processed negotiated grievances, unfair labor practice complaints, and other labor relations activities consistent with a collective bargaining agreement and statutory requirements. None of the above. 3 Check each program area in which you have federal civilian human resource management program advisory and/or implementation experience: Answer to this question is required Labor Relations program Term negotiations Impact and Implementation bargaining Disciplinary and adverse actions Unacceptable performance actions Medical related actions including fitness for duty examinations and/or actions based on medical inability Violence in the workplace related actions Probationary and trial period removals Management fact findings and/or investigations Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) investigations None of the above 4 I have current knowledge of Merit Systems Protection Board case precedents and have significant experience in preparing and/or successfully defending disciplinary, adverse, and performance-based actions. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I have current knowledge of Equal Employment Opportunity Commission case precedents and have significant experience in identifying and/or advising management on potential issues of harassment and/or discrimination. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I have developed investigation plans, interviewed witnesses, drafted statements, obtained supporting documents, and drafted well supported findings and recommendations for management consideration and action. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 I have advised managers on performance and conduct actions from intake through conclusion, with a range of results that includes adverse action. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 I have current knowledge of Federal Labor Relations Authority case precedents and have significant experience in preparing and/or successfully defending labor actions. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 I have advised employees on rights and procedural requirements for responding to proposals and for filing complaints, grievances, and appeals. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 I have maintained Employee Relations and Labor Relations files in accordance with organizational policies and the General Records Schedule. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Indicate which of these accurately describe your experience, if any. Answer to this question is required Advising management on proper application of labor law Coordinating management changes and work practices potentially impacting bargaining unit negotiability and implementation bargaining Serving as a technical advisor to management on union activities Advising management on appropriate procedures and practices related to unfair labor practice (ULP) charges Coordinating and balancing management needs and union concerns for bargaining unit positions Assisting with union contract negotiations Preparing written statements of case and management decisions Improved overall relationships between an employer and its union(s) Other activities not described here None of these activities View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.