Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Pharmacy Technicians process a variety of requisitions from the clinic. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have computed amounts and dosage of medications while filling prescriptions; and/or I have repackaged medications into smaller units using a variety of bulk items; and/or I have prepared compound medications. I have counted medications; and/or I have under supervision, filled prescriptions; and/or I have used systems of weights and measures appropriately; and/or I have checked accuracy of physician’s orders. I have observed others filling prescriptions; and/or I have counted medications under direct supervision; and/or I have assisted customers/patients with locating over the counter (OTC) medications. None of the above. 3 Pharmacy Technician is responsible for preparing and labeling parenteral preparations and medications while practicing aseptic techniques. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured medication storage temperatures were within required range and appropriately recorded; and/or I have cleaned intravenous line (IV) hoods and intravenous line (IV) preparation areas; and/or I have assembled and stocked supplies necessary for parenteral preparation. I have, with direct guidance and supervision, prepared intravenous line (IV) medications using aseptic techniques in the laminar flood hood; and/or I have prepared immunizations for subcutaneous or intramuscular administration; and/or I have helped deliver interim parenteral doses to administration areas. I have independently prepared intravenous line (IV) medications using aseptic techniques in the laminar flow hood; and/or I have participated and maintained quality assurance functions according to pharmacy policy and procedures; and/or I have prepared extemporaneous parenteral medications; and/or I have performed all sterile solution operations in the pharmacy. None of the above. 4 Pharmacy Technicians must be able to clearly and effectively express and convey information to people of different backgrounds, races, sexes, ages, cultures, and behavioral patterns. They must interact with management and line staff and inmates to provide pharmacy services to the institution inmate population. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to inquiries on general issues related to pharmacy office; and/or I have coordinated preemployment process for pharmacy contractors entering federal facility; and/or I have arranged appointments for Health Services Administrator, Pharmacist, or other staff. I have administered medications and reviewed oral instructions for medication with each patient in medication line; and/or I have remained calm when dealing with loud or disruptive customers/patients; and/or I have answered all inquiries regarding medications; and/or I have coordinated with automated technology representatives to repair, replace or update pharmacy equipment. I have made inquiries with pharmaceutical companies regarding status of orders; and/or I have reported status of medication orders at a staff meeting; and/or I have worked in a retail or hospital pharmacy providing customer service and communicating routine information with other health care providers; and/or I have explained any concerns fully to supervisor/pharmacist. None of the above. 5 Pharmacy Technicians should have a general knowledge of medications and be familiar with pharmacy operating procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted Pharmacist in compiling lists of medications for ordering; and/or I have after Pharmacist review and approval, placed written/verbal medication orders; and/or I have maintained drug inventories. I have observed and assisted with filling prescription medications; and/or I have packaged medications for shipment; and/or I have performed cashier duties within a pharmacy and learned overall general operations of the pharmacy. I have independently filled prescriptions with pharmacist checking completed work; and/or I have notified Pharmacist when potential drug/disease interactions or errors were found; and/or I have worked in hospital filling floor orders for prescriptions; and/or I have prepared and maintained medication carts and automated dispensing cabinets; and/or I have delivered medications to proper locations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).