Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 2 Which of the following best describes your skills and experience in applying developmental or experimental theories to solve unique and/or complex fire protection issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in applying developmental or experimental theories to solve complex fire protection problems. I have worked as part of a team in vetting developmental or experimental theories and applying them to unique or complex fire protection problems. I have worked individually or led a team in vetting developmental or experimental theories to solve unique or complex fire protection problems. I have applied developmental or experimental theories to solve complex fire protection problems for museums or other cultural properties. 3 Which of the following statements describe your experience in applying various types of fire protection systems and/or technologies. &nbsp; (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have designed or provided design review and construction oversight of basic fire protection systems for historical buildings. I have designed or provided design review and construction oversight for specialized fire protection systems for museums. I have designed and/or reviewed various types of fire sprinkler systems. I have designed and/or reviewed basic fire alarm and detection systems. I have designed and/or reviewed state of the art or specialized automatic fire suppression systems, such as water mist and total flooding gaseous systems. I have designed and/or reviewed state of the art or specialized fire detection systems, such as very early warning air sampling smoke detection, video smoke detection, and/or flame detection. I have designed and/or reviewed standard fire/smoke rated construction including rated walls, floors, and ceilings, as well as structural steel fire protection. I have designed and/or reviewed specialized or state of the art fire/smoke rated construction, such as fire/smoke curtains and sliding, accordion or rolling fire doors. 4 Which of the following statements describes your education or experience in using various methods for analyzing fire risks and the effects of fire protection strategies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have education or experience in applying structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have successfully completed college coursework involving the application of structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have successfully completed graduate level coursework involving the application of structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have professionally conducted qualitative or quantitative fire risk analyses to estimate the impact of fire protection strategies. 5 Which of the following codes and standards have you applied to assess compliance and develop corrective actions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required National Fire Codes (including NFPA 101, 13, 30, and 45). International Building Code. Factory Mutual Data Sheets. ASTM Standards. UL Product Directories. None of the above. 6 What is your knowledge and/or experience in applying performance-based approaches to resolve fire protection engineering and life safety issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience utilizing computer models to predict fire/smoke development and/or occupant movement and applied the results in the development of comprehensive solutions to complex fire protection engineering and/or life safety design issues. I have work experience applying or reviewing performance-based designs for complex fire protection engineering and/or life safety issues. I have work experience in applying or reviewing designs based on prescriptive codes only. I have no project design or review experience. 7 Which of the following describes your experience participating in and leading meetings for the purpose of resolving fire protection engineering issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have successfully led meetings with engineers, other professionals, and/or clients to discuss and resolve fire protection issues. I have actively participated in team meetings with engineers, other professionals, and/or clients to discuss and resolve fire protection issues. I have actively participated in meetings with instructors and students to discuss and resolve fire protection engineering issues. I have not participated in or led meetings for the resolution of fire protection issues. 8 Which of the following describes your experience with settings you have given an oral presentation for the purpose of providing information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have given presentations in team meetings. I have given presentations at office retreats. I have given presentations in class presentations. I have given presentations in group meetings. I have given presentations at company conferences. I have not given presentations. 9 Which of the following written formats have you communicated in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with fire safety standards. I have written official directives, policies, instructions, and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written scopes of work for fire protection related projects. I have written incident investigation reports. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 10 Which of the following describes your education or experience conveying complex or technical ideas in writing to outside groups or agencies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written technical articles which were published in professional journals or other professional publications. I have professionally written memos or other correspondence to communicate complex or technical issues with individuals or groups. I have successfully completed a master’s thesis in a fire protection-related subject that demonstrates my technical writing ability in explaining complex engineering concepts. I have successfully completed college coursework requiring formal written reports on technical engineering subjects. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 3 Which of the following best describes your skills and experience in applying developmental or experimental theories to solve unique and/or complex fire protection issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in applying developmental or experimental theories to solve complex fire protection problems. I have worked as part of a team in vetting developmental or experimental theories and applying them to unique or complex fire protection problems. I have worked individually or led a team in vetting developmental or experimental theories to solve unique or complex fire protection problems. I have applied developmental or experimental theories to solve complex fire protection problems for museums or other cultural properties. 4 Which of the following statements describe your experience in applying various types of fire protection systems and/or technologies. &nbsp; (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have designed or provided design review and construction oversight of basic fire protection systems for historical buildings. I have designed or provided design review and construction oversight for specialized fire protection systems for museums. I have designed and/or reviewed various types of fire sprinkler systems. I have designed and/or reviewed basic fire alarm and detection systems. I have designed and/or reviewed state of the art or specialized automatic fire suppression systems, such as water mist and total flooding gaseous systems. I have designed and/or reviewed state of the art or specialized fire detection systems, such as very early warning air sampling smoke detection, video smoke detection, and/or flame detection. I have designed and/or reviewed standard fire/smoke rated construction including rated walls, floors, and ceilings, as well as structural steel fire protection. I have designed and/or reviewed specialized or state of the art fire/smoke rated construction, such as fire/smoke curtains and sliding, accordion or rolling fire doors. 5 Which of the following statements describes your education or experience in using various methods for analyzing fire risks and the effects of fire protection strategies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have education or experience in applying structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have successfully completed college coursework involving the application of structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have successfully completed graduate level coursework involving the application of structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have professionally conducted qualitative or quantitative fire risk analyses to estimate the impact of fire protection strategies. 6 Which of the following codes and standards have you applied to assess compliance and develop corrective actions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required National Fire Codes (including NFPA 101, 13, 30, and 45). International Building Code. Factory Mutual Data Sheets. ASTM Standards. UL Product Directories. None of the above. 7 What is your knowledge and/or experience in applying performance-based approaches to resolve fire protection engineering and life safety issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience utilizing computer models to predict fire/smoke development and/or occupant movement and applied the results in the development of comprehensive solutions to complex fire protection engineering and/or life safety design issues. I have work experience applying or reviewing performance-based designs for complex fire protection engineering and/or life safety issues. I have work experience in applying or reviewing designs based on prescriptive codes only. I have no project design or review experience. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing and carrying out fire protection programs? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated facility fire protection and life safety programs to determine compliance with established national and/or local standards and internal fire protection policies. I have reviewed and edited fire protection and life safety program guidance and policies to ensure they are pertinent to operations and fully comply with current national and local standards. I have written and implemented fire protection and life safety program guidance and policies for an organization, and I have collaborated with affected parties to ensure successful acceptance and adherence. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience participating in and leading meetings for the purpose of resolving fire protection engineering issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have successfully led meetings with engineers, other professionals, and/or clients to discuss and resolve fire protection issues. I have actively participated in team meetings with engineers, other professionals, and/or clients to discuss and resolve fire protection issues. I have actively participated in meetings with instructors and students to discuss and resolve fire protection engineering issues. I have not participated in or led meetings for the resolution of fire protection issues. 10 Which of the following describes your experience with settings you have given an oral presentation for the purpose of providing information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have given presentations in team meetings. I have given presentations at office retreats. I have given presentations in class presentations. I have given presentations in group meetings. I have given presentations at company conferences. I have not given presentations. 11 Which of the following written formats have you communicated in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with fire safety standards. I have written official directives, policies, instructions, and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written scopes of work for fire protection related projects. I have written incident investigation reports. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 12 Which of the following describes your education or experience conveying complex or technical ideas in writing to outside groups or agencies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written technical articles which were published in professional journals or other professional publications. I have professionally written memos or other correspondence to communicate complex or technical issues with individuals or groups. I have successfully completed a master’s thesis in a fire protection-related subject that demonstrates my technical writing ability in explaining complex engineering concepts. I have successfully completed college coursework requiring formal written reports on technical engineering subjects. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 3 Which of the following best describes your skills and experience in applying developmental or experimental theories to solve unique and/or complex fire protection issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in applying developmental or experimental theories to solve complex fire protection problems. I have worked as part of a team in vetting developmental or experimental theories and applying them to unique or complex fire protection problems. I have worked individually or led a team in vetting developmental or experimental theories to solve unique or complex fire protection problems. I have applied developmental or experimental theories to solve complex fire protection problems for museums or other cultural properties. 4 Which of the following statements describe your experience in applying various types of fire protection systems and/or technologies. &nbsp; (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have designed or provided design review and construction oversight of basic fire protection systems for historical buildings. I have designed or provided design review and construction oversight for specialized fire protection systems for museums. I have designed and/or reviewed various types of fire sprinkler systems. I have designed and/or reviewed basic fire alarm and detection systems. I have designed and/or reviewed state of the art or specialized automatic fire suppression systems, such as water mist and total flooding gaseous systems. I have designed and/or reviewed state of the art or specialized fire detection systems, such as very early warning air sampling smoke detection, video smoke detection, and/or flame detection. I have designed and/or reviewed standard fire/smoke rated construction including rated walls, floors, and ceilings, as well as structural steel fire protection. I have designed and/or reviewed specialized or state of the art fire/smoke rated construction, such as fire/smoke curtains and sliding, accordion or rolling fire doors. 5 Which of the following statements describes your education or experience in using various methods for analyzing fire risks and the effects of fire protection strategies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have education or experience in applying structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have successfully completed college coursework involving the application of structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have successfully completed graduate level coursework involving the application of structured methods to analyze risks and measure the impact of fire protection strategies. I have professionally conducted qualitative or quantitative fire risk analyses to estimate the impact of fire protection strategies. 6 Which of the following codes and standards have you applied to assess compliance and develop corrective actions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required National Fire Codes (including NFPA 101, 13, 30, and 45). International Building Code. Factory Mutual Data Sheets. ASTM Standards. UL Product Directories. None of the above. 7 What is your knowledge and/or experience in applying performance-based approaches to resolve fire protection engineering and life safety issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience utilizing computer models to predict fire/smoke development and/or occupant movement and applied the results in the development of comprehensive solutions to complex fire protection engineering and/or life safety design issues. I have work experience applying or reviewing performance-based designs for complex fire protection engineering and/or life safety issues. I have work experience in applying or reviewing designs based on prescriptive codes only. I have no project design or review experience. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing and carrying out fire protection programs? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated facility fire protection and life safety programs to determine compliance with established national and/or local standards and internal fire protection policies. I have reviewed and edited fire protection and life safety program guidance and policies to ensure they are pertinent to operations and fully comply with current national and local standards. I have written and implemented fire protection and life safety program guidance and policies for an organization, and I have collaborated with affected parties to ensure successful acceptance and adherence. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience informing senior managers of fire/life safety issues and negotiating their resolution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have made proactive technical recommendations regarding unsafe practices which require departure from existing management policy. I have exercised good judgment in determining unsafe practices that can be fixed through consultation and collaboration and which required me to alert senior management. I have consulted and coordinated with experts both within and external to my agency and used the information gathered to negotiate resolutions to fire/life safety problems. I have provided technical guidance and assistance to management and clients on diverse fire protection and life safety issues in a variety of building and occupancy types. I have provided briefings covering the status of the fire protection program to senior managers on a weekly or more frequent basis as a part of my regular duties. I have informed and updated senior management, as needed, regarding on-going fire protection issues. I have not performed any of these tasks. 10 Which of the following describes your experience participating in and leading meetings for the purpose of resolving fire protection engineering issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have successfully led meetings with engineers, other professionals, and/or clients to discuss and resolve fire protection issues. I have actively participated in team meetings with engineers, other professionals, and/or clients to discuss and resolve fire protection issues. I have actively participated in meetings with instructors and students to discuss and resolve fire protection engineering issues. I have not participated in or led meetings for the resolution of fire protection issues. 11 Which of the following describes your experience with settings you have given an oral presentation for the purpose of providing information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have given presentations in team meetings. I have given presentations at office retreats. I have given presentations in class presentations. I have given presentations in group meetings. I have given presentations at company conferences. I have not given presentations. 12 Which of the following written formats have you communicated in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with fire safety standards. I have written official directives, policies, instructions, and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written scopes of work for fire protection related projects. I have written incident investigation reports. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 13 Which of the following describes your education or experience conveying complex or technical ideas in writing to outside groups or agencies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written technical articles which were published in professional journals or other professional publications. I have professionally written memos or other correspondence to communicate complex or technical issues with individuals or groups. I have successfully completed a master’s thesis in a fire protection-related subject that demonstrates my technical writing ability in explaining complex engineering concepts. I have successfully completed college coursework requiring formal written reports on technical engineering subjects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.