Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service related to the work of this position. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following describes the types of special events (i.e., luncheons, receptions, dinners, exhibition openings, board meetings) you have been responsible for developing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for developing small lunches and dinners for up to 50 guests with higher-level management officials or organizational directors. I have been responsible for developing seated dinners and receptions for up to 100 guests with speaking programs featuring organizational directors, donors, and keynote speakers. I have been responsible for developing one day or multi-day meetings with high-level donors. I have been responsible for developing exhibition opening receptions and large scale galas which include high-level Administration and members of congress. I have worked as a member of a team whose responsibility was to develop special events but have not performed this task independently. I do not have experience performing this task. 3 Which of the following describes the level of events protocol knowledge and experience you have been responsible for overseeing and/or coordinating? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for determining seating arrangements at dinners or ceremonies. I have been responsible for developing speaking programs and determining the order of presenters. I have been responsible for drafting and editing invitation copy. I have been responsible for providing advice on matters concerning order-of-precedence and diplomatic and protocol courtesies extended to visiting dignitaries, members of the Diplomatic Corps, and high-level government officials. I do not have experience performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in planning, scheduling and implementing special events? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in planning, scheduling and implementing special events. I have received training in planning, scheduling and implementing special events but have not performed this task on the job. I have planned, scheduled and implemented special events on the job (under close supervision) by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance. I have planned, scheduled and implemented special events independently (as a regular part of my job) and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have planned, scheduled and implemented special events routinely (as a central or major part of my work). I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with researching requirements for special events such as securing vendors, developing invitation lists, conceptualizing event themes and programs, preparing briefing materials and detailed event memos, and coordinating facilities and security support? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in researching requirements for special events. I have received training in researching requirements for special events, but not yet performed this task on the job. I have researched requirements for special events on the job (under close supervision) by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have researched requirements for special events independently (as a regular part of the job) and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have researched requirements for special events routinely (as a central or major part of my work). I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in creating and managing guest and RSVP lists using databases and spreadsheet applications? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in creating and managing guest lists using an automated system. I have received training in creating and managing guest lists using an automated system, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have created and managed guest lists using an automated system on the job (under close supervision) by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have created and managed guest lists using an automated system independently (as a regular part of the job) and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have created and managed guest lists using an automated system routinely (as a central or major part of my work). I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with various components of special events? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have arranged for building space. I have arranged for maintenance. I have arranged for catering. I have arranged for security. I have arranged for audio-visual needs. I have arranged for horticulture. I have arranged for signage. I have arranged for travel. I have arranged for lodging. I have arranged for tents. I have arranged for speakers or master of ceremonies. I have arranged for entertainment. I have developed and compiled guest lists. I have designed, printed or distributed invitations. I have tracked invites and acceptances. I have prepared written follow-up acknowledgment letters. I have not performed any of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your ability to complete bidding, procurement and contracts for catering, AV, floral, and equipment rental services in relation to special events? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in completing bidding, procurement and contracts for services. I have received training in completing bidding, procurement and contracts for services related to special events but have not performed this task on the job. I have completed bidding, procurement and contracts for services related to special events on the job, under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance. I have completed bidding, procurement and contracts for services related to special events independently, as a regular part of my job and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have planned, scheduled and implemented special events routinely, as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating in writing to people with varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely for the purpose of effectively negotiating agreements, settlements, solutions or consensus and/or defending complex concepts, objectives, and plans in special events? Answer to this question is required I have communicated in writing in the area of special events to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in written communication in the area of special events to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated in writing in the area of special events to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in written communicate in the area of special events to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated in writing in the area of special events to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 Which of the following describes your experience providing interpersonal communication support for an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization. I have explained technical or other complex information to a wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have expressed information to individuals or groups while effectively taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have effectively dealt with people who are difficult, hostile or distressed. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I do not have experience providing interpersonal communication support. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to collaborate with other departments, individual staff, and outside organizations to plan and implement special events? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in collaborating with other entities to plan and implement special events. I have received training in collaborating with other entities to plan and implement special events, but not yet performed this task on the job. I have collaborated with other entities to plan and implement special events on the job (under close supervision) by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have collaborated with other entities to plan and implement special events independently (as a regular part of the job) and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have collaborated with other entities to plan and implement special events routinely (as a central or major part of my work). I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following describes your experience providing interpersonal communication in support of an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups (e.g., government agencies, organizations, universities). I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization (e.g., government agencies, organizations, universities). I have explained technical or other complex information to a wide variety of individuals (e.g., government agencies, organizations, universities). I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints (e.g., government agencies, organizations, universities). I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (e.g., government agencies, organizations, universities). I have exchanged information and discussed issues and options available with program managers I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings or conferences None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing and managing special event budgets? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in developing and managing special event budgets. I have received training in developing and managing special event budgets but have not performed this task on the job. I have developed and managed special event budgets on the job (under close supervision) by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have developed and managed special event budgets independently (as a regular part of the job) and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed and managed special event budgets routinely (as a central or major part of my work). I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience in preparing purchase orders, contracts, travel orders, purchase card transactions, and similar documents? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following describes your experience making travel arrangements? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in making travel arrangements such as plane, car, or hotel reservations. I have completed training in making travel arrangements but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have made travel arrangements for supervisors or staff on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have made travel arrangements for supervisors or staff as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). 16 Which of the following best describes your experience managing the logistics of meetings and special events? Answer to this question is required I have managed the planning and implementation of special events for a major community. I have managed the planning and implementation of special events for a non-profit organization. I have worked as part of a team to plan and implement special events for a non-profit organization. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.