Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience to work as an Electrician without normal supervision. Experience includes installing, modifying, repairing, maintaining, troubleshooting, testing, inspecting and loading new and existing electrical systems and associated fixtures and appliances in the office complexes, laboratories, dormitories, telescope buildings, etc.; planning and laying out work, tracing hard-to-locate defects or problems and completing repairs and installations with little or no advice. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following best describes your highest level of electrical trade knowledge and experience? Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training Master Electrician o None of the above 3 In which of the following types of building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Residential Light commercial Large commercial Industrial Laboratory or other specialized construction Remote site infrastructure including distributed power and water systems 4 Which of the following electrical drawings do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Building plans/Blueprints Wire diagrams Ladder diagrams Schematics None of the above 5 On which of the following types of electrical equipment do you have experience performing preventive maintenance? (Check all that apply) Single Phase Motors Electrical Controllers Three Phase Motors Fans/Air Handlers Electrical Heaters Household, Industrial and Shop equipment Variable Frequency Drive 480 volt distribution system 4160 volt distribution system All of the above None of the above. 6 Which of the following life-safety systems do you have experience using and/or maintaining? (Check all that apply) Emergency generator (50 Kvw or higher) Fire pumps Fire suppression systems Fireman’s panel Emergency radio system None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your electrical construction/renovation experience? I have no experience with electrical construction. I have assisted others in performing electrician duties in the construction field. I have independently performed electrician duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job . I have performed electrician duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. 8 Which of the following licenses do you currently possess within the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Arizona Other state Not licenses 9 On which of the following types of equipment do you have experience performing, as a regular part of your duties, preventive maintenance in a commercial or industrial building environment? Electrical motor control centers Lightning protection systems Single and three phase motors Electrical generators and transfer switches Electrical system and wiring All of the above None of the above 10 Do you have experience with SCADA, or other supervisory control and data acquisition systems? Yes No 11 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw) Other power tools such as cable pullers and pipe threading machines Voltage testers Recording amp meter Multimeters Frequency meters Watt meters Power factor meters Vibro-grounds Phase rotation meters Audio tone location equipment High potential testers Ground fault interrupter testers Cathodic protection test sets Resistance bridges Circuit analyzers/breaker testers Meggars All of the above None of the above 12 Which of the following test equipment have you used? Signal generators Signal Tracers Oscilloscopes All of the above None of the above 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with electrical system troubleshooting? I have no experience with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have minimal experience with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have worked extensively, as a regular part of my duties, electrical systems troubleshooting. I have worked extensively, as a regular part of my duties, electrical systems troubleshooting. I have led or supervised the work of others with electrical system troubleshooting. 14 Do you have experience reading schematics to determine the location of defective parts? Yes No 15 Are you able to operate two and four wheel drive passenger cars and light trucks on a narrow, unpaved, mountain road? Yes No 16 Do you currently hold, or have you ever held, a Commercial Driver's License (CDL)? I have a valid AZ CDL I have a valid CDL for another state I have previously held a CDL and am not restricted from re-applying I have never held a CDL 17 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines Computer aided design software None of the above 18 Please describe your experience in the area of job site safety I have had training in safe practices related to electrical work I have had training is safe practices related to other construction trades’ work I have had training related to overall safe practices for work at a remote site I have had training in the handling and disposal of hazardous materials I have knowledge of Right to Know requirements I have had training in basic first aid procedures I have knowledge of incident/accident reporting procedures I have served as a member of a Safety Committee which had responsibility for implementing an organizations safety policies and procedure I have had responsibility for training others in safe work practices I have served as a Safety Officer with overall responsibility for implementing site-wide safety policies and procedures 19 Are you willing to participate in a training program for site safety? Yes No 20 Do you have the ability to interpret and apply the National Electrical Code to building plans, blueprints, wiring diagrams and engineering drawings? Yes No 21 Please select the statements that identify your experience. I have experience interpreting and applying the National Electrical Code to building plans. I have experience interpreting and applying the Nation Electrical Code to blueprints. I have experience interpreting and applying the Nation Electrical Code to wiring diagrams and engineer drawings. None of the above. 22 Do you have a valid Arizona or other stat's driver's license? Yes No 23 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have basic knowledge and have assisted electricians with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have immediate knowledge and minimal experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have extensive knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. 24 Do you have knowledge of the National Electrical Code? Answer to this question is required Yes No 25 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have minimal knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have extensive knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have intermediate knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. 26 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with facility electrical infrastructure ( motor control center)? Answer to this question is required I have independently executed electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panel boards I have had training/education in electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panel boards I have not had experience in executing electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panel boards I have led, trained or supervised the work of others in electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control centers and panel boards 27 Which of the following best describes your highest level experience performing electrical repairs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have minimal experience performing this task. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision. I have independently performed electrician repairs as a regular part of the job. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.