Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 1 [61671 This posting will be used to fill for Electrician vacancies that may have different shift options. We realize that some applicants may not be able to accommodate shift work, so you have a choice on how you want to be considered. However, please note that there is no guarantee that we will have openings at both locations, and, the Relief position will still be required to work shift work when filling in or covering the Lock Wall position.&nbsp; If you meet the qualifications, pass the hands-on test and are deemed eligible for this position, you can only be considered based on how you answer this question. &nbsp;After you have submitted your application, you can edit your application and change your answer at any time if the vacancy is still open, but once it is closed we are not able to change your answer for you. Please select how you would like to be considered under this vacancy, selecting option 3 ensures that you are considered for all open vacancies. Answer to this question is required Electrician (OST)  assigned as the skilled trades member of a Lock Wall crew at Lock Operations. During the navigation season work is performed on a 24-hour basis, seven days a week, on rotating day and night 12-hour shifts, with rotating days and weekends off. Electrician (Relief OST) - assigned to the Maintenance Electrical Branch, where work is primarily performed day shift Monday through Friday. Serves as skilled trades relief for Lock Operations when coverage is required during the navigation season and is subject to working the 12-hour shift schedule as described under #1 above. I wish to be considered for all vacant Electrician positions as described in both 1 & 2 above. 2 [54978] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you are aware that Massena has 4 seasons. Winter is the longest season (November through March). The average low temperature in the winter months is 15 degrees F with the average low in January (the coldest month) being 4 degrees F. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [55574] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you understand that: - Massena, NY is located more than 400 miles north (approximately 7 hours) of New York City on the northeast side of the state (near Vermont) and it takes less than ½ hour to drive to Canada. - Massena is located in a very rural part of New York State in St. Lawrence County (pop. 111,000), which is the largest county in New York State comprised of 32 towns, 1 city and 13 villages. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [52149] Choose the description that best describes your experience as an Electrician. Answer to this question is required I have extensive Journeyman level experience performing electrical tasks, independently with only limited supervisory overview. I am alert to potential hazards and take the necessary precautions to protect others and myself. I lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics. I install, modify, repair, trace and locate defects, loading and testing new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures, controls and equipment. I have above average Journeyman level experience performing electrical tasks. I lay out jobs per blueprints or schematics requiring only occasional assistance. I may need technical assistance on first time assignments or very complex projects. I have installed, modified, repaired, traced and located defects, loaded and tested new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures, controls and equipment with occasional assistance from a supervisor or higher-level employee. I have experience and training which demonstrates that I possess adequate experience performing electrical tasks. I perform these tasks under the normal direction of a supervisor or higher-level employee. I need technical assistance on any new project, but I am alert and progressive and I usually have to be shown only once in order to acquire the knowledge and ability to perform the task. I have jobs laid out for completion by a supervisor or higher-level employee. I have shown the potential to complete all of the basic electrical tasks under close observation by a supervisor or a journeyman of the trade. I've shown the potential to complete some of the basic electrical tasks under close observation by a supervisor or a journeyman of the trade. I would need training on the full trade tasks. None of the above 5 [52150] Choose the statement that best characterizes your ability to work with electrical equipment such as wiring motors, control equipment and communications equipment. Answer to this question is required Ability to install, maintain, and repair it with general supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair it, but only under close supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair it on my own, independently, without supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair independently, plus the ability to provide technical directions or training to lower-level workers on how to do the work properly. None of the above 6 [61672] Select the electrical equipment(s) with which you have the knowledge of. Answer to this question is required High voltage cable splicing Installation of cable couplers Motors Switchgear Control equipment Electrical substations Transformers Generators Wiring Lighting systems Regulating equipment None of the above 7 [53146] Select the equipment in which you have performed maintenance and repairs. Answer to this question is required AC/DC motors AC/DC generators and distribution panels Switch gear, breakers, fuses PLC control systems Computer controlled systems Educational laboratory equipment Electronic circuit boards and components Variable frequency drives None of the above 8 [52148] Select the item(s) with which you have knowledge and/or work experience using the electrical and electronic instruments, procedures and theory. Answer to this question is required Ohm`s law Series and parallel circuitry Alternating Current (AC) Direct Current (DC) Megger Tone detector Phase meter Ammeter Ohmmeter Voltmeter Kilowatt (KW) power meter Live line test equipment Voltage Drop Calculations National Electrical Code High-Pot Tester Hot Stick National Electrical Safety Code None of the above 9 [61636] Select the electrical power systems with which you have experience. Answer to this question is required 12 VDC (Voltage Direct Current) - 24 VDC 110 VDC 220 VDC 110 VAC (Voltage Alternating Current) 240 VAC 480 VAC 4160 VAC 13.2 KV (Kilo-volt) None of the above 10 [52009] Which of the following statements best describes your experience in installing, overhauling, adjusting, repairing and maintaining electrical equipment in accordance with specifications set forth in technical manuals, updates, etc.? Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, and have been closely supervised. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 11 [52652] Select the statement that best describes your experience in installing and replacing fuses, breakers, disconnecting switches and power panels up to 480 volts. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed in on the job. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journey persons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 12 [11136] Select the statement that best characterizes your ability to read, interpret and use electrical blueprints. Answer to this question is required Able to read and interpret under general supervisory guidance. Able to read and interpret on my own, independently, without supervision. Able to generate wiring diagrams for others to use. Not able to read and interpret; unable to use. 13 [11134] Select the statement that best characterizes your ability to identify electrical components and symbols. Answer to this question is required Able to read and interpret under general supervisory guidance. Able to read and interpret on my own, independently, without supervision. Able to generate wiring diagrams for others to use. Not able to read and interpret; unable to use. 14 [11135] Select the statement that best characterizes your ability to read and interpret circuit diagrams for internal and external connections of complicated electrical equipment. Answer to this question is required Able to read and interpret under general supervisory guidance. Able to read and interpret on my own, independently, without supervision. Able to generate wiring diagrams for others to use. Not able to read and interpret; unable to use. 15 [29490] Select the statement that best describes your experience in the ability to locate and repair broken, worn, damaged, or defective wiring, circuits, relays and also to install, maintain, troubleshoot, and repair electrical fixtures, switches, outlets, circuits, pumps, generators, motors on electrical equipment. Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task, or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 16 [52648] Select the statement that best describes your level of experience in diagnosing electrical problems by operating equipment, using electrical test equipment and conducting visual checks. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed in on the job. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journey persons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 17 [52649] Select the statement that best describes your level of experience troubleshooting new installations to ensure that the equipment operates correctly and the electrical input is adequate. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed in on the job. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journey persons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 18 [52651] Do you have experience troubleshooting 4-20mA circuits? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 [927] I have been fit tested for a respirator within the last 5 years. Answer to this question is required True False 20 [52650] Select the statement that best describes your level of experience doing lock/out and tag/out of electrical equipment according to OSHA regulations. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed in on the job. I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level, but I have been closely supervised. I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journey persons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 21 [11002] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions. Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, following lock-out tag-out procedures, and confined space work operations. I have had some instruction in general safety practices for working in inclement weather, from heights, or over water and/or ice, but have had little practical experience with lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. I have used proper lifting and bending techniques while working with a partner during inclement weather and have followed proper lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. I have worked as a member of a team in a industrial or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights and/or while working near water and/or ice, in all types of weather and have followed lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. 22 [20013] Select the statement that best describes your ability to appropriately assess, act and make decisions where impact was of a serious nature. Answer to this question is required I have assessed and managed emergency type situations where critical decisions were made and impact could be of a serious nature. I have assessed and managed serious situations where my decisions had impact. I have no skill or experience in this area. 23 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 25 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 26 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 27 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 27.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 27.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 27.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 27.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 27.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 27.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 27.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 27.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 28 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 29 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 30 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 31 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 32 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).