Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In which of the following administrative areas do you have experience providing support services? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 5 Which of the following best reflect your ability to analyze statistical information? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience analyzing statistical information. I have formal undergraduate level education/ training analyzing statistical information. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have formal graduate level education analyzing statistical information. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have formal education / training and work experience in analyzing statistical information. I have analyzed statistical information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have analyzed statistical information as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Analyzing statistical information has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in analyzing statistical information and (or) others have consulted me as an expert. 6 Which of the following sources have you used to conduct research? Answer to this question is required Internet Electronic databases Periodicals Books Regulatory / statutory materials Interviews Multi-media Original sources Surveys None of the above 7 Which of following choices BEST describes your experience using a wide range of evaluation and performance measurement related analytic tools and approaches for quantitative data analysis, testing for statistical significance, cross-tabulations and correlations, and content analysis? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a superior or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a superior or senior coworker. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience developing annual budgets and/or multiyear program estimates? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing annual budgets and/or multi-year program estimates. I have education or training in developing annual budgets and/or mult-iyear program estimates, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs estimates as a regular part of my job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing annual budgets and/or multi-year programs having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Experience conducting facility assessments and audits. Answer to this question is required I have never performed this task. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task is central or a major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Do you have experience applying Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, standards and practices to workplace assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you independently managed a purchase card or credit card for your employer as part of your duties? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 13 I have qualifications performing administrative duties in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Travel Procuring supplies for an office. Timekeeping Records Management Tracking systems Requisitioning office equipment and maintenance Employee services Conference / Meeting Coordination None of the above 14 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 15 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 16 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have had formal education / training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have had formal education / training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for the program. I have no formal education / training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 17 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 18 Which of the following best reflect your ability to analyze narrative information? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience analyzing narrative information. I have formal undergraduate level education/ training analyzing narrative information. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have formal graduate level education analyzing narrative information. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have formal education/ training and work experience in analyzing narrative information. I have analyzed narrative information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have analyzed narrative information as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Analyzing narrative information has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in analyzing narrative information and (or) others have consulted me as an expert 19 Which of the following BEST describes your experience performing analysis of future office needs, including prioritization and funding recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.