Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Health Services Assistants are required to orally convey technical and non-technical program information to his/her supervisor, co-workers, vendors, the general public, inmates, Central Office and Regional Office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding the Health Services Department operation. He/she must possess the ability to verbally communicate information understandable to the intended audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated with vendors to request information, such as bids for office equipment; and/or I have coordinated with staff and healthcare professionals to schedule inmate medical appointments; and/or I have answered questions from the general public, following Freedom of Information Act, Privacy Act, and Bureau policy. I have briefed supervisor or Department Head about my work progress and assignment statuses; and/or I have explained general regulations or basic technical procedures to the general public or other employees (such as inmate visiting regulations); and/or I have conveyed basic technical information, such as answer routine questions from inmates about departmental procedures, open house hours, how to make sick call appointments, etc. I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group or committee; and/or I have relayed pertinent medical information and patient history from staff healthcare providers to community hospital staff; and/or I have contacted vendors by telephone to resolve discrepancies with government credit card statement. None of the above. 3 Health Services Assistants perform support services for the Health Services Department and work with Central Office, Regional personnel and institution department staff. They must prepare and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, write memorandums to management, etc. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched department's needs and written draft statements of work or major equipment justifications for cost center manager; and/or I have prepared non-routine letters, memorandums, and reports; and/or I have generated routine memorandums, such as weekly status reports and submitted them to supervisor without prompting or instructions. I have proofread documents for supervisor, correcting typing, format and grammar errors before routing; and/or I have transcribed complex documents, such as committee meeting minutes, letters, medical summaries and inmate emergency medical outside consultation referral requests, in the correct format with no grammatical or typing errors; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence from instruction. I have reviewed written work of coworkers for grammar, content and format; and/or I have written memorandums and letters for supervisor's signature with only vague verbal base instructions; and/or I have written technical reports and correspondence that summarize financial or budget data, including spending trends; and/or I have developed and written internal office procedures. None of the above. 4 Health Services Assistants must collect, analyze and interpret information relative to the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected data and information from existing databases, such as fund control, before analyzing trends and reporting them to the cost center manager; and/or I have gathered information and completed routine reports, such as monthly consolidating reports in timely manner; and/or I have assisted the cost center manager in reviewing last year's financial data and analyzed current patient outside medical care trends to determine the department's budget needs for next fiscal year as directed. I have entered information into fund control and other existing databases and schedules in a timely manner; and/or I have assisted in gathering information and completing routine reports, such as monthly consolidating reports; and/or I have assisted in collecting data from existing files and databases, such as fund control, for the cost center manager as directed. I have created a new database to collect and analyze financial/budgeting information that allows quicker access to the information or track information in new ways that improve the efficiency of the department; and/or I have reviewed last year's financial data and analyzed current patient outside and/or inside medical care trends to determine the department's budget needs for the upcoming fiscal year; and/or I have analyzed financial data and notified cost center manager of changes in spending trends as they arise. None of the above. 5 Health Services Assistants must interpret and apply financial policies, procedures and guidelines while performing assignments dealing with departmental budgetary information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied basic policies, guidelines, and procedures, such as Federal Acquisition Register and Bureau accounting policy to make departmental purchases; and/or I have reviewed travel vouchers for accuracy according to Travel Regulations; and/or I have followed Bureau policy to determine what items are needed to pay a bill. I have followed instructions to apply accounting policies and procedures, such as compiling and examining reports to confirm transactions were accepted into the system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly into the system under supervision. I have drawn conclusions based on financial information, such as reconciled and resolved general ledger discrepancies; and/or I have reconciled inmate payroll; and/or I have served as team leader in conducting an annual physical inventory. None of the above. 6 Health Services Assistants organize and maintain records and filing systems within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have tracked individual files removed from the system using a log book or computer tracking system; and/or I have audited credit card statements for accuracy and resolved discrepancies before filing; and/or I have maintained established case or patient files, adding topics/files as needed. I have processed and maintained financial document files such as invoices, vendor files, budget reports from Financial Management, Inmate Performance Pay, and electronic fund control files; and/or I have created tracking systems to record when files are checked out (tracking systems may be hard copy or computerized); and/or I have established and maintained complex files, such as processing contractor background checks, staff time & attendance files or accounts payable files with accurate, up-to-date information. I have audited complex records, such as patient health records, for completeness and for accuracy of filing order; and/or I have created a new filing system or database that allows quicker access to information in files; and/or I have organized and maintained concise obligation records in a manner which allowed the information to be easily retrieved; and/or I have established, organized and maintained record and filing systems. None of the above. 7 Health Services Assistants must be skilled in using personal computers to effectively perform the assigned duties within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have set or reset date and time on office equipment, such as facsimile machine; and/or I have re-sorted financial data or patient data in existing spreadsheet database to analyze trends; and/or I have troubleshot and solved minor problems with a copy machine, such as paper jams; and/or I have experience using advanced editing features and tools when using word processing programs, such as Microsoft Word. I have used Microsoft Access, Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet program to create new databases to track cost center and other financial information for the department; and/or I have used Microsoft Word, another word processing program or Adobe to create a form to be used by other staff; and/or I have converted non-.pdf documents to .pdf documents that can be uploaded into computer software systems. I have keyed department's financial data into existing spreadsheet database; and/or I have replaced toner, replaced paper and performed routine user maintenance for copy machines and facsimile machines; and/or I have used dictation machine to type meeting minutes. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).