Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Do you have experience performing the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 08 1 Do you have&nbsp; experience performing worker-level painter-refinisher-decorative work without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 09 1 Do you have experience performing the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 On which topics have you completed training? Answer to this question is required Personal protective equipment (PPE) Proper housekeeping procedures to prevent accidents Interpreting safety signs (e.g., hard hat areas) Proper work lighting How to work safely around hazardous materials (e.g., asbestos, lead paint) None of the above 2 Have you interpreted and completed work orders/work requests exactly as requested? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you assisted with gathering tools for assignments and preparing work sites (e.g., covering work areas with protective materials)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which safety equipment have you used on the job? Answer to this question is required Steel toe boots Protective eye wear Mask/respirator Work gloves Coveralls None of the above 5 Select the equipment that you have used to apply coating. Answer to this question is required Brushes and rollers Conventional sprayers Airless and air-assisted sprayers High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) sprayers Spray booths None of the above 6 Which tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Checking work emails Requesting leave/time off Completing online surveys Completing online training (related to company policies) Performing self-assessments for performance ratings None of the above 7 Select the elevated support products you have used, constructed, erected, and disassembled. Answer to this question is required Scaffolds (Mechanical, ground-based, rolling, stationary, ladder jack) Aerial work platforms Aluminum and wooden planks Extension ladders Swing stages Step ladders None of the above 8 Have you used a wire brush, brush comb, or brush spinner to clean/maintain paint brushes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the tools that you have used in painting tasks. Answer to this question is required Tape measures Scale rulers T-squares Scrapers Straight edges Levels Lasers Basic brushes and rollers Putty knives Spray equipment None of the above 10 Which response best describes your highest level of experience matching paints? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have used a computerized tint machine to tint paint. I have used a spectrophotometer to match paint. I have used newer materials to match paint when the base no longer existed, using only my vision and past experience. I have matched paint for historical surfaces or where sunlight caused fading, making multiple surfaces differ in shades of the same color, using only my vision and past experience. 11 What types of surfaces have you applied paint? Answer to this question is required Wood Metal Glass Synthetic Concrete Other surfaces None of the above 12 Select the procedures you have used to repair minor imperfections in wood surfaces. Answer to this question is required Graining Sanding Spot Priming Surfaces Sealing Knots Filling Imperfections Feathering Imperfections by Sanding Wood Conditioner None of the above 13 Which painting-related skills have you used at work or during an at-home project? Answer to this question is required Color matching Cutting and rolling walls Painting murals Faux finishing Marbleizing Shading Staining Sealing Clear coating Striping None of the above 14 What types of specialized tools have you used to complete complex painting and decorative work assignments? Answer to this question is required Pumice Rottenstone Viscosity Graining Devices None of the above 15 Which decorative finishing/painting techniques have you performed? Answer to this question is required Marbleizing Striping Glazing Graining Sponging None of the above 16 Do you have experience leveling plaster coatings to create a smooth surface? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you performed journey level painting-refinishing work in a historically significant environment requiring meticulous attention to detail? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.