Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for an inmate caseload. He/she is responsible for meeting with inmates to discuss and access re-entry needs and following up on the completion of recommended programs (i.e., facilitating re-entry programs, monitoring special and legal mail, recommending sanctions for disciplinary hearings, visiting inmates housed in the Special Housing Unit, assigning inmates to work details compatible with their skill set, managing inmate quarters/bed assignments, conducting inmate legal calls, conducting inmate orientation into the housing units, processing inmate visiting lists, monitoring inmate telephone calls and emails, processing inmate pay, and a variety of other tasks related to the day-to-day needs of the inmates). Therefore, he/she must be able to organize and prioritize work assignments, as many of the tasks are time sensitive. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used established checklists to accurately complete work assignments, utilized an electronic calendar to monitor deadlines; and/or I have generated frequent rosters to monitor inmate releases and plan work. I have established a daily to-do list to stay on task; and/or I have used a color-coding system to distinguish and manage urgent tasks and priorities assigned by the supervisor; and/or I have reorganized unexpected tasks to meet supervisor’s expectations. I have maintained and updated a database on an emergency response team in accordance with established instructions; and/or I have utilized an established checklist to ensure all required documents were included in the file prior to routing; and/or I have responded to a supervisor’s electronic task manager to indicate the completion of a task in advance of the deadline. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Counselor must review various sources of information (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Reports, Sentry data, Judgment and Commitment Orders, inmate Program Review forms; National Crime Information Center (NCIC), and Bureau policy) pertaining to the inmate and make appropriate determinations and recommendations, based on the data reviewed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed an organization’s policy to answer questions from stakeholders or the public; and/or I have read audit findings to make changes to assigned tasks; and/or I have reviewed and reported suspicious inmate correspondence to prevent possible security breaches; and/or I have provided recommendations to revise policy. I have obtained information to prepare a response to a written inmate request; and/or I have conducted an audit/inventory of accountable property assigned to other departments, as instructed, using an inventory data sheet; and/or I have evaluated inmate disciplinary sanctions to make discipline recommendations to the supervisor; and/or I have retrieved and interpreted information involving sensitive inmate issues (i.e., notification of inmate physical or sexual assault) and reported it to a supervisor, based on policy. I have assisted the supervisor with facilitating training on a specific topic to inmates during intake; and/or I have identified and documented discrepancies/policy deviations during an internal/external audit; and/or I have made recommendations to a supervisor for inmate disciplinary sanctions; and/or I have performed internal audits and submitted findings to the supervisor for further action. None of the above. 6 The Correctional Counselor will develop and facilitate re-entry based group sessions, based on inmate needs assessments. These group sessions may be developed based on local or national initiatives which target inmates&rsquo; individual re-entry needs. The Correctional Counselor conducts classes or group meetings that encourages positive behavior and lifestyle changes, for a successful transition into the community. He/she may rely on the assistance of other agencies to promote effective and informative re-entry programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a brief presentation to a community relations board; and/or I have provided an overview of re-entry programs to peers/colleagues; and/or I have delivered talking points to an inmate population. I have provided instructional guidance to special needs students as a paraprofessional or substitute teacher; and/or I have confirmed group facilitators for a re-entry or recovery group; and/or I have answered general academic questions from potential students at a college or university. I have researched new re-entry programs and provided information to program coordinators; and/or I have reviewed case studies/statistics for re-entry programs for evaluation by a supervisor; and/or I have created handouts and training aids for classroom instruction. None of the above. 7 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for ensuring the inmate&rsquo;s correctional and programming needs are met on a daily basis while providing supervision and accountability of inmates and maintaining institution security. The majority of inmate&rsquo;s entitlements are outlined in policy. The Correctional Counselor must be familiar with correctional policies and procedures in order to effectively carry out their duties that contribute to the health and welfare of inmates and promote effective communication to reduce litigation and potential conflicts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided detailed work instructions to a specialized inmate work detail (i.e., plumbing crew, infectious disease clean-up crew, inmate suicide observation team); and or I have reviewed an incident report for details and made recommendations during a discipline hearing; and or I have conducted a walkthrough of inmate living areas for compliance of standards and made corrective actions, prior to an audit or assessment. I have searched inmate high alert mail and monitored high alert calls and made the proper notifications in the institution intelligence database for possible security concerns; and or I have responded to an institution disturbance and deployed non-lethal munitions; and or I have maintained accountability for inmates in specialized housing units (i.e., Special Housing Unit (SHU), Special Management Unit (SMU), Administrative Maximum (ADX) Security Unit, Death Row); and or I have provided documentation for an internal/external audit; and or I have conducted mass interviews after an institution emergency. I have prepared and escorted inmates to court hearings/medical appointments; and or I have provided supervision of inmates on suicide watch; and or I have responded to an inmate attempted suicide and assisted with life-saving measures; and or I have provided instructions to inmates housed in a mental health unit. None of the above. 8 Correctional Counselor interacts on a daily basis with inmates, other staff, management, other government agencies, community contacts, and inmate family members. Must be able to communicate effectively with all levels of contacts. He/she must be able to communicate policies in a clear and concise manner, explain institution rules to new inmates, conduct interviews of new inmates during the institution intake process, relay basic information to inmate family members, and develop contacts in the community to assist with the inmate&rsquo;s re-entry transition. He/she must be able to show understanding, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern and politeness to others, which could include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. He/she&nbsp;must relate well to people from varied backgrounds and be aware of cultural differences and race, sex, disabilities, and religious preferences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided instructions to an emergency preparedness team as a team leader in crisis situation; and or I have provided detailed commands to inmates during a disturbance to regain control of the situation; and or I have provided specialized training and guidance to new staff; and or I have presented a leadership class to peers/colleagues. I have provided general instructions to an inmate work detail; and or I have retrieved inmate data to discuss programming with an inmate; and or I have assisted staff with a community re-entry event; and or I have communicated with co-workers/peers as the point of contact to plan an institution-wide program. I have provided detailed instructions to an inmate work detail during a crisis situation; and or I have provided guidance and resource information to veterans, individuals with special needs or disabilities; and or I have provided suggestions to community officials at a community board meeting or civic event that was implemented; and or I have provided security and instructions to participants at a large community event. None of the above. 9 The Correctional Counselor is the primary contact and source of information pertaining to the daily livelihood of the inmates. This includes work and housing unit assignments. He/she must be able to identify signs of inmate stress or tension, potential personality conflicts, and signs of abnormal behavior, either by a single inmate, a group of inmates, and/or the housing unit as a whole. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified the temperament and mood of the inmate population during an institution lockdown and reported the observation to a supervisor; and or I have searched and found contraband when an inmate’s behavior appeared suspicious; and or I have observed and reported an inmate with recent marks or tattoos to the appropriate supervisor. I have conducted a pat search or cell search of a suspicious inmate; and or I have reported and described a suspicious package to authorities; and or I have notified a supervisor of a missing inmate. I have called for medical assistance for an inmate who appeared ill; and or I have recognized an inmate which appeared to be under the influence of intoxicants and reported to an appropriate supervisor; and or I have sought psychological assistance for an inmate after displaying bizarre behavior; and or I have observed and reported a change in an inmate’s behavior, daily activities, social interactions and reported to appropriate staff. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-08 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for an inmate caseload. He/she is responsible for meeting with inmates to discuss and access re-entry needs and following up on the completion of recommended programs (i.e., facilitating re-entry programs, monitoring special and legal mail, recommending sanctions for disciplinary hearings, visiting inmates housed in the Special Housing Unit, assigning inmates to work details compatible with their skill set, managing inmate quarters/bed assignments, conducting inmate legal calls, conducting inmate orientation into the housing units, processing inmate visiting lists, monitoring inmate telephone calls and emails, processing inmate pay and a variety of other tasks related to the day-to-day needs of the inmates). Therefore, he/she must be able to organize and prioritize work assignments, as many of the tasks are time sensitive. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently planned and organized daily work assignments to meet supervisor’s goals; and/or I have maintained a calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completing prior to the established deadline; and/or I have independently planned and organized own work while simultaneously assisting peers to complete assigned tasks by the established deadline; and/or I have set priorities for the department, and planned, organized and monitored tasks to achieve the priorities. I have re-prioritized workflow, due to an unexpected task and met the original deadline; and/or I have monitored rosters/reports to identify a status change to initiate a work product; and/or I have scheduled reoccurring assignments/tasks on a calendar to prioritize weekly workflow and meet deadlines. I have maintained and updated a database on an emergency response team in accordance with established instructions; and/or I have utilized an established checklist to ensure all required documents were included in the file prior to routing; and/or I have responded to a supervisor’s electronic task manager to indicate the completion of a task in advance of the deadline. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Counselor must review various sources of information (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Reports, Sentry data, Judgment and Commitment Orders, inmate Program Review forms; National Crime Information Center (NCIC), and Bureau policy) pertaining to the inmate and make appropriate determinations and recommendations, based on the data reviewed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed grievances to assess the validity of the complaint and prepared a response for review by the Legal Department; and/or I have evaluated inmate court documents for security concerns/programming needs; and/or I have deciphered embedded words in inmate emails and correspondence for security violations or illegal activity that prevented a disturbance; and/or I have led an external/internal audit for policy compliance and recommended corrective actions, based on policy that were implemented; and/or I have autonomously reviewed and interpreted internal/external audit findings to make corrective actions to daily tasks and assignments without direction from a supervisor. I have obtained information to prepare a response to a written inmate request; and/or I have conducted an audit/inventory of accountable property assigned to other departments, as instructed, using an inventory data sheet; and/or I have evaluated inmate disciplinary sanctions to make discipline recommendations to the supervisor; and/or I have retrieved and interpreted information involving sensitive inmate issues (i.e., notification of inmate physical or sexual assault) and reported it to a supervisor, based on policy. I have processed National Crime Information Center (NCIC) data and recommended approval/disapproval, based on potential security risks; and/or I have revised incident reports describing prohibited acts based on additional information (i.e., witness statements, video evidence); and/or I have revised existing policy to incorporate new initiatives and policy guidelines; and/or I have reviewed policy and drafted discrepancies as part of an internal/external audit review team for review by the lead reviewer; and/or I have audited generated reports/budgets and reported anomalies to management. None of the above. 6 The Correctional Counselor is the primary contact and source of information pertaining to the daily livelihood of the inmates. This includes work and housing unit assignments. He/she must be able to identify signs of inmate stress or tension, potential personality conflicts, and signs of abnormal behavior, either by a single inmate, a group of inmates, and/or the housing unit as a whole. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported a window, cell or locking device with evidence of tampering; and/or I have maintained visual contact and verbally engaged an inmate threatening bodily harm to himself/herself or others, until assistance arrived; and/or I have observed and secured an inmate with injuries consistent with being involved in a physical altercation; and/or I have independently secured and reported a potential crime scene. I have called for medical assistance for an inmate who appeared ill; and/or I have recognized an inmate which appeared to be under the influence of intoxicants and reported to an appropriate supervisor; and/or I have sought psychological assistance for an inmate after displaying bizarre behavior; and/or I have observed and reported a change in an inmate’s behavior, daily activities, social interactions and reported to appropriate staff. I have convinced inmates to cease fighting or relinquish weapons to avoid a potentially dangerous situation; and/or I have independently conducted an internal/external search of an area or facility due to an alleged or attempted escape; and/or I have observed and reported inmate interactions to identify the leaders of disruptive groups in order to isolate them from the general population; and/or I have negotiated with a hostage taker and regained control of a potentially dangerous situation; and/or I have performed life-saving measures on an inmate or individual in medical distress; and/or I have talked a suicidal individual in distress out of committing the act and referred them to the appropriate emergency/psychological staff. None of the above. 7 The Correctional Counselor will develop and facilitate re-entry based group sessions, based on inmate needs assessments.&nbsp; These group sessions may be developed based on local or national initiatives which target inmates&rsquo; individual re-entry needs. The Correctional Counselor conducts classes or group meetings that encourages positive behavior and lifestyle changes, for a successful transition into the community. He/she may rely on the assistance of other agencies to promote effective and informative re-entry programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a brief presentation to a community relations board; and/or I have provided an overview of re-entry programs to peers/colleagues; and/or I have delivered talking points to an inmate population. I have taught self-defense, fire-arms, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) for staff on a recurring basis at a correctional facility as a lead instructor; and/or I have developed curriculum lesson plans and training aids for recurring staff training; and/or I have instructed students as a teacher or college professor in a school setting; and/or I have coordinated an inmate re-entry program with other agencies (i.e., Social Security Administration, Veterans Administration, Probation Office, Court Diversion); and/or I have created and taught a training program that was implemented by another agency. I have provided instruction to students as a substitute teacher; and/or I have facilitated a re-entry program or wellness/recovery group; and/or I have presented information in the absence of the supervisor for an inmate orientation program; and/or I have revised a training program to accommodate the needs of the participants. None of the above. 8 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for ensuring the inmate&rsquo;s correctional and programming needs are met on a daily basis in preparation for release while providing supervision and accountability of inmates and maintaining institution security.&nbsp; The majority of inmate&rsquo;s entitlements are outlined in policy.&nbsp; The Correctional Counselor must be familiar with correctional policies and procedures in order to effectively carry out their duties that contribute to the health and welfare of inmates and promote effective communication to reduce litigation and potential conflicts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated counseling groups in a correctional environment to meet re-entry needs; and/or I have recommended inmate programming in a work group; and/or I have secured a crime scene and collected evidence with minimal supervision in accordance with policy; and/or I have initiated random urine analyses to inmates according to policy and secured the sample; and/or I have assisted with an investigation regarding a Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) allegation; and/or I have initiated a threat assessment involving multiple inmates; and/or I have explained daily operating procedures to staff and inmates to ensure the safe and orderly running of the institution. I have interpreted National Crime Investigation Center (NCIC) reports to determine security risks for entry into the institution; and/or I have independently made decisions for specialized inmate programming; and/or I have autonomously issued disciplinary sanctions to enforce rules and regulations; and/or I have coordinated counseling groups amongst several departments in a correctional environment to promote inmate re-entry needs; and/or I have led an external/internal audit for policy compliance and recommended corrective actions that were implemented; and/or I have developed instructional guides/policies that were adopted by an organization. I have searched inmate high alert mail and monitored high alert calls and made the proper notifications in the institution intelligence database for possible security concerns; and or I have responded to an institution disturbance and deployed non-lethal munitions; and or I have maintained accountability for inmates in specialized housing units (i.e., Special Housing Unit (SHU), Special Management Unit (SMU), Administrative Maximum (ADX) Security Unit, Death Row); and or I have provided documentation for an internal/external audit; and or I have conducted mass interviews after an institution emergency. None of the above. 9 Correctional Counselor interacts on a daily basis with inmates, other staff, management, other government agencies, community contacts, and inmate family members. Must be able to communicate effectively with all levels of contacts. He/she must be able to communicate policies in a clear and concise manner, explain institution rules to new inmates, conduct interviews of new inmates during the institution intake process, relay basic information to inmate family members, and develop contacts in the community to assist with the inmate&rsquo;s re-entry transition. He/she must be able to show understanding, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern and politeness to others, which could include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. He/she must relate well to people from varied backgrounds and be aware of cultural differences and race, sex, disabilities, and religious preferences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided instructions to an emergency preparedness team as a team leader in crisis situation; and/or I have provided detailed commands to inmates during a disturbance to regain control of the situation; and/or I have provided specialized training and guidance to new staff; and/or I have presented a leadership class to peers/colleagues. I have provided guidance to individuals on a suicide prevention or domestic abuse hotline; and/or I have provided mediation services in the community or for a local agency; and/or I have responded to an emergency situation and rendered medical assistance to distressed individuals; and/or I have engaged in confrontational avoidance during a calculated use of force situation; and/or I have facilitated a re-entry program or wellness/recovery group (i.e., Anger Management, Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous, etc.). I have organized a re-entry program with a local, state or federal agency/organization (i.e., Veterans Administration, United States Parole Commission, One Stop Career Center or financial institution); and or I have coordinated with an agency to secure inmate identification (i.e., state identification or birth certificate); and or I have presented training in the community on Bureau of Prisons re-entry programs; and or I have based on a meeting with another agency, written a draft Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for review by a supervisor. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).