Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator conducts research to evaluate the effectiveness of agency programs and policies and provide recommendations for their improvement as they relate to the preparation of offenders for reentry.&nbsp;He/she collects information and analyze resources, draws conclusions, and makes recommendations to develop additional resources, policies, plans and/or programs to enhance skill development and reentry success.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted research and evaluated/analyzed programs and resources and provided recommendations in the formulation, establishment, or modification of program objectives, plans, and/or policies having direct impact on local agency operations; and/or I have reviewed programs to determine their applicability to the inmate population and formulated local policy recommendations; and/or I have compiled information to target special population needs and made recommendations for further skill development programs and resources and/or changes to policy and procedures; and/or I have compiled data and assessed the quality and completeness of the application of assessment tools and planning documents; and/or I have prepared reports and presented them to supervisory staff to demonstrate the impact of programs and practices on skill development and reentry efforts. I have analyzed data and information to complete work assignments at local level; and/or I have reviewed programs and resources and recommended strategies for enhancement to address local needs; and/or I have developed tracking and monitoring to determine application and quality of local programs; and/or I have compiled information to target special population needs and made recommendations for further programs and resources; and/or I have reviewed and utilized assessment tools to target program needs. I have conducted management assessment; and/or I have analyzed managements objectives and on-going operating programs and assessed their relative value in the overall goals of the agency; and/or I have reviewed policy to determine consistency with other policies or regulations; and/or I have reviewed forms or documents for completeness and conformity to instructions/policy; and/or I have conducted a perpetual audit of a program review standard. None of the above. 4 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator must effectively organize and coordinate multi-disciplinary and multi-agency related projects and processes to effectively enhance the skill development of offenders and ensure the availability of comprehensive reentry resources for the successful transition of offenders.&nbsp;He/she independently initiates projects and facilitates their development from conception through final implementation.&nbsp;This involves coordination and development of relevant policy directives and monitoring and management of the application of processes across multiple disciplines and agencies.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have routinely assisted in the tracking of inmates in a program, class, or job assignment; and/or I have regularly utilized SENTRY to monitor the status of inmates; and/or I have monitored procedures within the department through the collection and maintenance of data on a routine basis. I have utilized organizational and data collection studies on projects relating to offenders from institutions; and/or I have developed flow charts and task analysis of department functions and program impacts across disciplines; and/or I have coordinated and monitored the use of statistical reports for executive level staff and external agencies such as the Department of Justice, Government Accountability Office, and Office of Inspector General to assist in developing policy implementation for initiatives; and/or I have monitored or coordinated a career resource center for their institution which provided a wide range of resources for the inmate population to include: career assessments, employment preparation services, job seeking assistance nationwide, identification and linkage to community resources and social service agencies in inmate’s releasing area. I have monitored information relating to the needs of offenders from institutions; and/or I have coordinated the use of flow charts and task analysis of department functions and program impacts across disciplines; and/or I have provided information used in the development of statistical reports for executive level staff and external agencies for the implementation of policy for local program efforts; and/or I have maintained/monitored the use of automated systems designed specifically to establish efficient methods for information collection and distribution. None of the above. 5 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator establishes and maintains effective working relationships with individuals from a different range of backgrounds, political and social levels, national and local agencies, and community and religious organizations, that are involved or impact the development of skill development and reentry initiatives in such a way that motivates and influences them to collaborate and volunteer to participate in a varied range of activities.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with an open house for specific groups or tours or speaking at a local civic event/function; and/or I have coordinated partnerships with local agencies to include community relations activities; and/or I have worked with staff at varying levels nationwide and developed reentry resources which addressed the geographical distribution of the releasing offender population to include development of vocational training, apprenticeships, and mentor components; and/or I have organized volunteers and mentors to meet program needs identified for the inmate population, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have identified community reentry resources to provide services targeted for returning offenders and their families; and/or I have worked closely with local partnerships in the development and collaborative efforts which address workforce development and skill development initiatives to include joint training efforts. I have worked with staff at varying levels locally and developed a broad base of reentry resources which address the geographical distribution of the releasing offender population; and/or I have monitored volunteers and mentors to meet program needs identified for the inmate population, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have utilized community reentry resources to provide services targeted for returning offenders and their families; and/or I have organized committees which focused on local partnerships and collaborative effort which address workforce development. I have distributed information to partners related to institution needs and resources; and/or I have followed up with staff to share information on various topics related to reentry, volunteers, and or programs; and/or I have managed resources assigned to a department; and/or I have requested and organized a meeting with internal/external partners. None of the above. 6 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator serve as the in-house resource for other Reentry Affairs Coordinators (local, regional, and national) in the agency and must be able to clearly communicate a wide array of information, including technical, statistical, and conceptual information to a variety of audiences (internal and external).&nbsp;He/she must be able to effectively conduct training sessions, facilitate meetings, and prepare presentations in various formats to meet the needs of the targeted audience.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with others internal to the organization on non-sensitive issues/topics such as serving on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have shared recommendations/comments during staff meetings; and/or I have interacted with co-workers to ensure successful completion of tasks; and/or I have provided recommendations to supervisor to share information related to job duties. I have interacted with high ranking officials internal to the organization to develop and brief executive staff/upper management on complex issues/new policy recommendations; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have developed and modified programs and/or presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to co-workers and peers or local community partners. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).