Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 In addition to the basic requirements, choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to GS-7 level in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with financial management software? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I use basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. I use financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports on a daily basis, and I reconcile internal accounting reports of Federal and/or non-Federal funds. I have prepared account reconciliations by exporting data from the automated accounting systems into a spreadsheet software (MS-Excel) to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I am considered an expert with financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial reports with Agency-wide impact. None of the above. 3 Which of the following tasks have you performed in support of financial forecasting and revenue recordkeeping? (Select all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Prepared financial forecasts that distinguish between trust and federal revenue sources. Entered incoming revenue such as cash, checks, or credit card payments into a computerized financial system. Maintained up-to-date and detailed records of revenue sources used in financial forecasting. Used financial databases or software to input revenue data that supports forecasting activities. Projected expenses, contributions, or donations as part of financial forecasting responsibilities. None of the above 4 Which of the following tasks have you performed in support of financial data integrity and revenue entry? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identified and corrected discrepancies in ERP revenue/disbursement records such as with IPAC and bank/payment transactions. Entered incoming revenue (e.g., cash, checks, credit cards) into a computerized financial database with detailed accuracy Used Western Union (WU) and Treasury systems to reconcile cash adjustments and pay cycle issues. Tracked and resolved open issues related to FSS/CMM and financial partner disbursements. Maintained up-to-date records of revenue entries and associated adjustments in ERP systems. None of the above 5 Which of the following describes your experience analyzing financial data using an organization&rsquo;s financial system to track, reconcile and report on its financial resources? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing financial data using a computerized financial system other than the ERP Financials system to track, reconcile and report on a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization's financial resources. I have experience. analyzing financial data using the ERP Financials system to track, reconcile and report on a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization's financial resources. I have experience analyzing financial data using the ERP Financials system or another computerized system to track, reconcile and report on an organization’s financial resources that is other than a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization. None of the above 6 I have experience performing the following activities: Answer to this question is required Receiving, reviewing and processing accounting transactions Receiving, reviewing and processing requests for the establishment of additional accounting records Reviewing complex documents to verify accounting data and mathematical accuracy Preparing and processing statistical reports None of the above 7 Which of the following activities have you performed in a financial analysis role within a federal or institutional setting? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Used Oracle ERP to analyze financial data and identify program funding trends. Applied GAAP principles to ensure the accuracy of financial interpretations and recommendations. Accessed U.S. Treasury systems to verify incoming federal payments and reconcile discrepancies Used external financial portals from banking or financial partners to monitor cash flow and program funding. Recommended corrective actions based on short-term changes in program requirements. Ensured compliance with federal budget procedures and financial regulations during analysis. None of the above 8 Which of the following tasks have you performed related to financial partner evaluation and general ledger review? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Reviewed cost and fee structures of financial partners on a recurring basis. Verified general ledger entries for accuracy and initiated corrections when needed. Used ERP and Treasury systems such as IPAC and G-Invoicing to monitor fund disbursements. Performed adjustments in the financial system after identifying posting errors Analyzed revenue streams from contracts and financial partners for reporting purposes. None of the above 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed in troubleshooting and account examination? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Reviewed Ledger Activity reports and GL accounts. Resolved discrepancies in debit card account entries Initiated and executed adjustments for problematic areas. None of the above 10 Which of the following describes your experience regarding an organization's general ledger? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted periodic reviews of entries posted to the general ledger of an organization to verify accuracy of entries. I have conducted periodic reviews of entries posted to the general ledger of an organization to monitor funds expenditure. None of the above. 11 Which of the following tasks have you performed in relation to preparing cash forecasts and using financial management software? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used ERP systems to generate quarterly or annual cash management reports Created cash flow forecasts using advanced Excel functions such as pivot tables and formulas. Monitored budget execution using automated financial reporting tools. Designed spreadsheets to track and reconcile cash disbursements and receipts. Used ERP and Excel tools to support unit-level budget planning and forecasting None of the above 12 Which of the following describe the types of financial laws and regulations you use (or have used) in a professional setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Treasury Regulations Office of Management and Budget Business Rules for Intra-Governmental transactions. Office of Management and Budget Circulars and Bulletins, especially OMB 01-02 "Audit Requirements for Federal Financial Statements" and OMB 01-09 "Form and Content of Agency Financial Statements" General Accounting Office guidance, e.g., Governmental Auditing Standards (Yellow Book), Internal Control Standards Federal Appropriation Law, Comptroller General Decisions Government Standard General Ledger Financial management legislation, including the CFO Act of 1990, the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act, the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act OMB Circulars, e.g., A-123, "Management Accountability and Control" and A-127, "Policies and Standards for Financial Management Systems" Financial Accounting Standards Board policies and procedures Other financial laws and regulations None of the above Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a PH.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that demonstrates the knowledge, skill and ability necessary to do the work. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work. I have 1 year of SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE at or equivalent to GS-9 level in the announcement. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with financial management software? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I use basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports. I use financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports on a daily basis, and I reconcile internal accounting reports of Federal and/or non-Federal funds. I have prepared account reconciliations by exporting data from the automated accounting systems into a spreadsheet software (MS-Excel) to analyze financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. I am considered an expert with financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial reports with Agency-wide impact. None of the above. 3 Which of the following tasks have you performed in support of financial forecasting and revenue recordkeeping? (Select all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Prepared financial forecasts that distinguish between trust and federal revenue sources. Entered incoming revenue such as cash, checks, or credit card payments into a computerized financial system. Maintained up-to-date and detailed records of revenue sources used in financial forecasting. Used financial databases or software to input revenue data that supports forecasting activities. Projected expenses, contributions, or donations as part of financial forecasting responsibilities. None of the above 4 Which of the following tasks have you performed in support of financial data integrity and revenue entry? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identified and corrected discrepancies in ERP revenue/disbursement records such as with IPAC and bank/payment transactions. Entered incoming revenue (e.g., cash, checks, credit cards) into a computerized financial database with detailed accuracy Used Western Union (WU) and Treasury systems to reconcile cash adjustments and pay cycle issues. Tracked and resolved open issues related to FSS/CMM and financial partner disbursements. Maintained up-to-date records of revenue entries and associated adjustments in ERP systems. None of the above 5 Which of the following describes your experience analyzing financial data using an organization&rsquo;s financial system to track, reconcile and report on its financial resources? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing financial data using a computerized financial system other than the ERP Financials system to track, reconcile and report on a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization's financial resources. I have experience. analyzing financial data using the ERP Financials system to track, reconcile and report on a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization's financial resources. I have experience analyzing financial data using the ERP Financials system or another computerized system to track, reconcile and report on an organization’s financial resources that is other than a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization. None of the above 6 I have experience performing the following activities: Answer to this question is required Receiving, reviewing and processing accounting transactions Receiving, reviewing and processing requests for the establishment of additional accounting records Reviewing complex documents to verify accounting data and mathematical accuracy Preparing and processing statistical reports None of the above 7 Which of the following activities have you performed in a financial analysis role within a federal or institutional setting? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Used Oracle ERP to analyze financial data and identify program funding trends. Applied GAAP principles to ensure the accuracy of financial interpretations and recommendations. Accessed U.S. Treasury systems to verify incoming federal payments and reconcile discrepancies Used external financial portals from banking or financial partners to monitor cash flow and program funding. Recommended corrective actions based on short-term changes in program requirements. Ensured compliance with federal budget procedures and financial regulations during analysis. None of the above 8 Which of the following tasks have you performed related to financial partner evaluation and general ledger review? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Reviewed cost and fee structures of financial partners on a recurring basis. Verified general ledger entries for accuracy and initiated corrections when needed. Used ERP and Treasury systems such as IPAC and G-Invoicing to monitor fund disbursements. Performed adjustments in the financial system after identifying posting errors Analyzed revenue streams from contracts and financial partners for reporting purposes. None of the above 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed in troubleshooting and account examination? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Reviewed Ledger Activity reports and GL accounts. Resolved discrepancies in debit card account entries Initiated and executed adjustments for problematic areas. None of the above 10 Which of the following describes your experience regarding an organization's general ledger? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted periodic reviews of entries posted to the general ledger of an organization to verify accuracy of entries. I have conducted periodic reviews of entries posted to the general ledger of an organization to monitor funds expenditure. None of the above. 11 Which of the following tasks have you performed in relation to preparing cash forecasts and using financial management software? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used ERP systems to generate quarterly or annual cash management reports Created cash flow forecasts using advanced Excel functions such as pivot tables and formulas. Monitored budget execution using automated financial reporting tools. Designed spreadsheets to track and reconcile cash disbursements and receipts. Used ERP and Excel tools to support unit-level budget planning and forecasting None of the above 12 Which of the following describe the types of financial laws and regulations you use (or have used) in a professional setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Treasury Regulations Office of Management and Budget Business Rules for Intra-Governmental transactions. Office of Management and Budget Circulars and Bulletins, especially OMB 01-02 "Audit Requirements for Federal Financial Statements" and OMB 01-09 "Form and Content of Agency Financial Statements" General Accounting Office guidance, e.g., Governmental Auditing Standards (Yellow Book), Internal Control Standards Federal Appropriation Law, Comptroller General Decisions Government Standard General Ledger Financial management legislation, including the CFO Act of 1990, the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act, the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act OMB Circulars, e.g., A-123, "Management Accountability and Control" and A-127, "Policies and Standards for Financial Management Systems" Financial Accounting Standards Board policies and procedures Other financial laws and regulations None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.