Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position includes the following:&nbsp;(1) Coordinating retail operations, including merchandising, promotions, and inventory management; (2)&nbsp;Supporting contract oversight activities (e.g., monitoring vendor performance, maintaining compliance logs); (3) Utilizing financial or point-of-sale systems to compile data and prepare reports; (4) Performing administrative functions, such as preparing purchase orders, managing schedules, and processing timekeeping; and (5) Providing customer service and cash handling responsibilities in a retail environment. 2 Which of the following retail coordination tasks have you independently performed as part of your duties? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planned and executed seasonal merchandise promotions or product launches Developed or updated visual merchandising plans, signage, or floor layouts Adjusted inventory levels based on sales analysis and trends Drafted product descriptions for eCommerce or marketing materials Provided guidance to staff or contractors on merchandising standards None of the above 3 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in product assortment planning and visual merchandising.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I was responsible for providing direction and leadership to a team to develop the product assortment and visual merchandising plans. I was part of a team that developed the product assortment plan and visual merchandising plan for a retail business I was the sole person responsible for developing the product assortment plan and visual merchandising plan for a retail business. I have limited experience developing a product assortment plan and visual merchandising plan for a retail business. 4 Please select the statement that best describes your experience with selecting merchandise for sale in a retail organization. Answer to this question is required Independently selected merchandise for sale in a retail organization. Worked in collaboration with a team in the selection of merchandise for sale in a retail organization. Assisted with the selection of merchandise for sale in a retail organization. I do not have any experience with selecting merchandise for sale in a retail organization. 5 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving sales and inventory problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving sales and inventory problems. I have resolved sales and inventory problems. I reported sales and inventory results to senior level management for resolution. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of sales and inventory problems. 6 Which statement best describes your experience with vendor or contractor compliance? Answer to this question is required I have independently monitored vendor performance, maintained compliance logs, and reported results. I have assisted with vendor oversight but did not complete logs or reports. I have only received training on vendor oversight. I have no experience with vendor oversight or contract compliance. 7 Which of the following financial accountability tasks have you performed as a primary responsibility? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Counted and reconciled multiple cash drawers daily Prepared and submitted deposits to a bank or secure collection service Prepared change orders and tracked petty cash or change funds Identified and reconciled discrepancies during cash handling Maintained documentation for daily deposits, logs, and reconciliations None of the above 8 Which tasks demonstrate your direct experience monitoring vendor performance and contract compliance? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Conducted routine inspections for cleanliness, service standards, or safety compliance Maintained vendor performance logs, inspection checklists, or compliance reports Reported deficiencies and recommended corrective actions to management Participated in formal contractor performance evaluations or reviews Coordinated communication between vendors and management to resolve service issues None of the above 9 Which administrative and office support tasks have you performed independently in a retail or operational environment? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Created and processed purchase orders or contract service requests in a financial system Maintained merchandise databases or historical records for inventory and sales Managed calendars, scheduled meetings, and coordinated logistics for management staff Processed staff timekeeping, attendance, or payroll records Prepared written correspondence, reports, or presentations for internal or external stakeholders None of the above 10 Which of the following data reporting and system functions have you used to support retail operations? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Generated sales or financial reports using Point of Sale (POS) or financial management systems Created or updated reports using Excel, Access, or other database/spreadsheet tools Compiled data into presentations or dashboards for management review Integrated data from multiple retail systems to prepare comprehensive reports Provided guidance to others on using retail or office automation software for reporting None of the above 11 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Composing complex administrative documents or correspondence. Writing reports or findings regarding analysis reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Composing daily activity reports regarding complex issues. None of the above 12 Which have you orally communicated to visitors or customers? Answer to this question is required Merchandise recommendations Guidance with the checkout process Location of specific policies, restrictions, and written guidance Alternative suggestions for products and/or services None of the above 13 Which tasks have you performed to assess customer needs? Answer to this question is required Actively worked on the retail floor. Monitored customer comments or conversations for negative information. Utilized sales reports and merchandise trend analysis. Observed customer shopping habits. Interacted with sales associates to receive feedback on merchandise. Proactively asked customers if they needed assistance. None of the above. 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.