Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Case Management Coordinator must possess the ability to develop and facilitate technical training courses on various case management procedures and processes. Additionally, they are responsible for conducting meetings with case managers and unit support staff in order to present the position of the institution administration regarding Bureau of Prisons policy and institution case management procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented complex and/or technical information to external personnel which resulted in case resolution; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work related issues; and/or I have developed and provided training on new case management processes or procedures; and/or I have testified in court on behalf of the institution; and/or I have chaired a meeting and successfully presented or provided training to case managers or unit support staff; and/or I have successfully resolved differences of opinions among participants during meetings. I have instructed a class using an established curriculum or lesson plan; and/or I have prepared and presented a speech during Institutional Familiarization, Annual Refresher Training or institution recall; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered; and/or I have presented operational review findings and recommendations for improvements during departmental meetings. I have contributed case information during a unit team meeting; and/or I have assisted senior staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have assisted in training new employees on routine procedures and processes. None of the above. 6 The Case Management Coordinator must be able to interpret written materials and communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner in order respond to external correspondence received, develop Institution Supplements to agency policy,&nbsp; and prepare case reports and lesson plans for training others.&nbsp;They&nbsp;are also responsible for reviewing work prepared by others and must possess the ability to proofread and correct grammatical errors to correspondence prior to forwarding for the Warden&rsquo;s signature.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded in writing to inquiries received from internal sources; and/or I have prepared informational memorandums as instructed by supervisor; and/or I have responded to Inmate Requests to Staff Member (Cop-Out). I have prepared detailed summaries of investigations, operational review findings, etc.; and/or I have prepared judicial letters or congressional responses which required minor corrections; and/or I have prepared progress reports and case summaries which contained appropriate conclusions and recommendations. I have independently prepared technical reports that were used by upper management; and/or I have prepared complex executive level correspondence such as program review responses, operational reviews, strategic plans, or congressional responses; routinely sought out by others to review/edit written correspondence prior to forwarding to supervisor; and/or I have reviewed correspondence for policy compliance and made corrections prior to the Warden’s signatures. None of the above. 7 The Case Management Coordinator oversee the case management program areas to ensure that agency personnel are following established guidelines and regulations. They are responsible for developing institution supplements and internal procedures for case management functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in an Operational Review of Case Management areas; and/or I have assisted in preparing a streamlined procedure for a case management function; and/or I have provided routine information/policy interpretation of case management policies to non unit management staff; and/or I have monitored and administered oversight of a specialized case management program for a unit; and/or I have assisted in updating an institution supplement. I have developed a case management checklist or procedure that was subsequently implemented Region-wide; and/or I have provided case management policy interpretation to non-agency personnel; and/or I have assisted with a case management specialized project in a regional setting; and/or I have provided detailed training to staff regarding the implementation of a new Bureau of Prisons program; and/or I have monitored and administered oversight of a specialized case management program for the institution (i.e., CIM Program, VWP Program, Pre-arrival screening). I have provided routine information/policy interpretation of case management policies at a team meeting; and/or I have routinely monitored caseload in compliance with policy; and/or I have resolved routine case management issues in compliance with established policy/procedures. None of the above. 8 The Case Management Coordinator must possess the ability to analyze information and make recommendations in regard to policy and programs that effects other departments. They are responsible for developing and formulating policies, plans and/or programs to meet correctional program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed corrective action to address a deviation from policy that is implemented at the institution level; and/or I have established corrective action plans to correct existing deficiencies; and/or I have provided input that is adopted or included in national policy, Institutional Supplement, Strategic Plan, or local policy. I have made a recommendation for an inmate to participate in a recommended program; and/or I have provided input and feed back to other departments on case management related issues; and/or I have monitored inmates progress in meeting program plans previously established by the unit team. I have made a recommendation to the unit manager which results in an internal change in the unit’s policy or procedure; and/or I have made a recommendation on policy change or procedure of another department that is implemented by that department; and/or I have made recommendations for the development of corrective action plans. None of the above. 9 The Case Management Coordinator must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities for all case management functions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled program reviews and/or initial classifications for inmates/clients; and/or I have utilized a SENTRY database to track and prioritize work/caseload; and/or I have chaired a Unit Disciplinary Committee hearing. I have maintained an individual workload while routinely assigned as acting Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator; and/or I have exceeded internal or policy dictated deadlines on assignments; and/or I have adjusted or changed priorities to complete last minute or emergency assignments; and/or I have maintained individual work load while assigned extra duties such as a coordinator of a program (Unit pre-release, Admission and Orientation, a committee). I have initiated the timely processing of referrals, transfer requests; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines; and/or I have maintained individual workload while only occasionally assigned as acting Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator. None of the above. 10 The Case Management Coordinator supervises and manages the employees involved with case/unit/inmate systems management. The Case Management Coordinator is responsible for the supervision and development of a Records Supervisor, Case Managers, Legal Instruments Examiners, Inmate Systems Officers and clerical staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations; and/or I have adjusted staff duties and assignments; and/or I have directed the work of subordinates or other staff members; and/or I have recommended staff for awards; and/or I have counseled employees on their performance. I have provided input to a performance evaluation; and/or I have directed the work of inmates and completed work performance evaluations; and/or I have participated in providing feedback as a mentor. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to the immediate needs of the division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based on disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).