Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a thorough understanding and experience Cognitive Behavioral therapy as well as treatment interventions with the context of a formal treatment program. In addition, he/she must have expertise in the use of these interventions within the context of a formal treatment program in a correctional setting.&nbsp;He/she must also have expertise in identifying criminal thinking patterns and intervening appropriately to address criminal behavior. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated cognitive behavioral group therapy to dually diagnosed adult patients; and/or I have provided treatment interventions to dually diagnosed clients in individual outpatient therapy; and/or I have developed treatment plans for dually diagnosed adult patients in an outpatient setting. I have maintained a caseload of clients or offenders in a community setting providing group and individual interventions; and/or I have conducted intake services within a detention facility; and/or I have provided cognitive-behavioral based individual outpatient therapy to for adults involved with the court system. I have facilitated individual and group cognitive-behavioral interventions; and/or I have independently maintained a case-load of adult patients with co-occurring disorders developed and implemented treatment plan; and/or I have supervised master’s level clinicians providing cognitive behavioral treatment services to inmates on probation with a history of mental illness and/or substance abuse. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and process groups. He/she must have expertise in psychotherapy specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed individual treatment plans and facilitated psychotherapy addressing issues related to major mental illness and/or substance abuse; and/or I have conducted group psychotherapy based in cognitive-behavioral theory in an adult detention center. I have co-facilitated treatment for clients with issues related to antisocial attitudes and behaviors; and/or I have co-facilitated psychotherapy in a group setting; and/or I have provided individual or group therapy to individuals under court ordered supervision. I have provided treatment interventions to patients in a drug treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy in an inpatient psychiatric unit; and/or I have assisted in the provision of individual or group treatment which included mentally ill clients and those with substance abuse diagnoses. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer, and interpret psychological tests of adults in a correctional setting, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. He/she must have assessment expertise specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: PAI, MCMI, MMPI, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS; and/or I have conducted an initial interview/screening of clients for admission to a dual diagnosis treatment program; and/or I have completed psychosocial histories for adult patients entering a mental health or drug abuse treatment program. I have administered and interpreted a variety of personality tests; and/or I have administered and interpreted criminal thinking inventories; and/or I have on a quarterly basis, completed psychological assessments for the purposes of treatment planning for individuals enrolled in a formal treatment program. I have administered and interpreted assessments including, criminal thinking inventories, substance abuse assessments, brief intelligence screening, and personality inventories; and/or I have conducted mental status exam of new admissions to a mental health facility; and/or I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: GAMA, Shipley, NEO, PAI, MCMI, MMPI, T-JTA, SA-45, BSI, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS, TCU Assessment Instruments. None of the above. 10 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have assisted with suicidal clients referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have responded to a crisis situation involving a patient with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have supported peer(s) with defusing an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have collaborated or assisted non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have co-facilitated staff training related to suicide prevention and de-escalation; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. 11 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures. In addition, he/she must have a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with research on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have conducted a literature review on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for a mentally ill inmate; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate. I have instructed treatment of criminal thinking to others; and/or I have taught education workshops and seminars related to mental illness and demonstrated to others; and/or I have thoroughly reviewed and interpreted the field of mental illness and criminal thinking. None of the above. 12 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator is responsible for the supervision and evaluation of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have provided advice/guidance to peers on work related issues; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have assisted with providing clinical training to peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have co-mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate clinical staff. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a thorough understanding and experience Cognitive Behavioral therapy as well as treatment interventions with the context of a formal treatment program. In addition, he/she must have expertise in the use of these interventions within the context of a formal treatment program in a correctional setting.&nbsp;He/she must also have expertise in identifying criminal thinking patterns and intervening appropriately to address criminal behavior. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a caseload of clients or offenders in a community setting providing group and individual interventions; and/or I have conducted intake services within a detention facility; and/or I have provided cognitive-behavioral based individual outpatient therapy to for adults involved with the court system. I have facilitated individual and group cognitive-behavioral interventions; and/or I have independently maintained a case-load of adult patients with co-occurring disorders developed and implemented treatment plan; and/or I have supervised master’s level clinicians providing cognitive behavioral treatment services to inmates on probation with a history of mental illness and/or substance abuse. I have coordinated and administered an inpatient treatment program for substance abuse offenders; and/or I have clinically supervised doctoral and master level clinicians within a cognitive behavioral treatment program for offenders diagnosed with antisocial attitudes and behaviors, substance abuse, and/or mental illnesses; and/or I have supervised master’s level clinicians providing cognitive behavioral treatment services to inmates on probation with a history of mental illness and/or substance abuse. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and process groups. He/she must have expertise in psychotherapy specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed individual treatment plans and facilitated psychotherapy addressing issues related to major mental illness and/or substance abuse; and/or I have conducted group psychotherapy based in cognitive-behavioral theory in an adult detention center. I have co-facilitated treatment for clients with issues related to antisocial attitudes and behaviors; and/or I have co-facilitated psychotherapy in a group setting; and/or I have provided individual or group therapy to individuals under court ordered supervision. I have conducted educational groups, individual therapy, and process groups in a residential treatment program in a correctional facility with adult offenders; and/or I have provided individual, process and group treatment in a correctional or inpatient adult setting; and/or I have written treatment plans and provided evidence based psychological interventions to dual diagnosed adult offenders. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer, and interpret psychological tests of adults in a correctional setting, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. He/she must have assessment expertise specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: PAI, MCMI, MMPI, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS; and/or I have conducted an initial interview/screening of clients for admission to a dual diagnosis treatment program; and/or I have completed psychosocial histories for adult patients entering a mental health or drug abuse treatment program. I have administered and interpreted a variety of personality tests; and/or I have administered and interpreted criminal thinking inventories; and/or I have on a quarterly basis, completed psychological assessments for the purposes of treatment planning for individuals enrolled in a formal treatment program. I have administered and interpreted a variety of objective, and cognitive assessment protocols weekly; and/or I have administered, scored, and interpreted psychological assessments, used the assessment data to write a comprehensive clinical conceptualization and diagnostic profile on a weekly basis; and/or I have on a weekly basis, completed comprehensive psychological assessments for the purposes of treatment planning for individuals enrolled in a formal treatment program. None of the above. 10 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide utilizing cognitive-behavioral interventions for an inmate on suicide watch; and/or I have responded to an adult offender in experiencing a psychotic break, assessed referral needs, and de-escalated situation; and/or I have facilitated training to a variety of correctional staff in confrontation avoidance and de-escalation tactics. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have co-facilitated staff training related to suicide prevention and de-escalation; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. 11 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures. In addition, he/she must have a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with research on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have designed a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of an adult treatment program in a correctional setting or long-term care facility; and/or I have conducted a literature review on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) diagnosis and developed a treatment protocol for incarcerated or long-term care adults with several mental illness which was implemented. I have conducted a literature review on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for a mentally ill inmate; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate. None of the above. 12 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator is responsible for the supervision and evaluation of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with providing clinical training to peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have co-mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate clinical staff. I have provided clinical training, supervision, and mentoring to staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical work of staff to ensure compliance with community standards and best clinical practices; and/or I have implemented performance improvement plans as an administrator and clinical supervisor. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).