Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. Applicants must also possess: Management ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, recognize and adapt to changing priorities; and Knowledge of the interrelationships and interdependencies among various medical and administrative services and programs. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) or LEO (GL)applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must possess the ability to assist in the management of both the administrative and clinical care programs of a Health Service Department. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to services provided, assisting in the management of a complex medical and supply budget, and ensuring all programs are optimized to support each other. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in performing medical supply and equipment inventories; and/or I have prepared Purchase Requests for higher level approval; and/or I have reconciled discrepancies on purchase card billing statements. I have scheduled physical examinations and health assessments; and/or I have gathered required documentation/information necessary to schedule an escorted medical trip; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages. I have completed patient care activities as scheduled/assigned; and/or I have completed administrative duties as assigned; and/or I have notified supervisor of situations which required supervisor to reconsider priorities or schedules assigned to applicant. None of the above. 6 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must possess thorough knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory authorities (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), federal, state, local), to ensure the Health Service Department is in compliance with regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed medical documentation for review by supervisor or other staff; and/or I have followed policy to perform new commitment physicals within required time frames as assigned; and/or I have identified situations which required consulting with supervisor or other staff member to clarify policy or procedure requirements. I have referenced program statements or policy regarding dispensing medications or providing medical services; and/or I have involved in the accreditation process with participation in planning meetings (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), etc.); and/or I have provided recommendations to streamline processes or procedures. I have responded to a medical related Inmate Request to Staff Member (Cop-Out); and/or I have followed proper procedures in the preparation of an Incident Report or other medical related form; and/or I have submitted a suggestion for higher level approval on hours of operation or improved services; and/or I have referred to standard operating procedures or policies in completing tasks. None of the above. 7 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must effectively interact with physicians, subordinate staff, co-workers, inmates and outside resources to assist in the orderly operation of the department. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, and with the institution&rsquo;s executive staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the medical needs of an inmate/patient with other involved parties; and/or I have obtained information and relayed findings to supervisor; and/or I have coordinated requirements for a medical escort trip with departmental staff; and/or I have provided pertinent information during internal meetings. I have attended unit or clinic meetings where patient care was planned or discussed; and/or I have collected patient history or complaint for use by others; and/or I have collected and reported patient vital signs or laboratory specimens as ordered by primary care provider. I have provided medical updates during departmental meetings; and/or I have obtained information from vendors and relayed findings to supervisor on new medical equipment available for purchase; and/or I have coordinated medical escort trip details with other departments. None of the above. 8 The Assistant Health Services Administrator is responsible for recognizing the potential of subordinate staff and assisting subordinates in attaining their professional goals. Additionally, he/she is responsible for providing supervision, direction, and guidance to their subordinates in a firm, fair, and objective manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have assisted in the completion of a departmental project; and/or I have assisted in planning of intra-departmental activities within institution. I have demonstrated leadership to others by providing direction on medical questions; and/or I have coordinated a team building exercise; and/or I have led a focus group or committee. I have mentored newly hired staff; and/or I have provided instructions to a patient regarding aftercare; and/or I have gained the cooperation of an inmate/patient/client refusing to take prescribed medications. None of the above. 9 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing correspondence related to medical needs and programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an Incident Report; and/or I have responded to Inmate Request to a Staff Member (BP-9); and/or I have participated in an operational review or audit of a health care facility; and/or I have prepared justification to correct a noted error in a written procedure; and/or I have prepared recurring memorandums. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared routine data collection table for supervisor’s review; and/or I have responded to emails in a timely manner; and/or I have completed daily logs; and/or I have completed daily/weekly security reports. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. Applicants must also possess: Management ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, recognize and adapt to changing priorities; and Knowledge of the interrelationships and interdependencies among various medical and administrative services and programs. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) or LEO (GL)applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must possess the ability to assist in the management of both the administrative and clinical care programs of a Health Service Department. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to services provided, assisting in the management of a complex medical and supply budget, and ensuring all programs are optimized to support each other. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in performing medical supply and equipment inventories; and/or I have prepared Purchase Requests for higher level approval; and/or I have reconciled discrepancies on purchase card billing statements. I have scheduled physical examinations and health assessments; and/or I have gathered required documentation/information necessary to schedule an escorted medical trip; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages. I have managed an existing inventory system which maintained adequate medical supply levels; and/or I have verified obligations for health services management; and/or I have managed a small operating budget within a health care program; and/or I have coordinated and prepared Purchase Requests for medical supply/equipment orders. None of the above. 6 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must possess thorough knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory authorities (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), federal, state, local), to ensure the Health Service Department is in compliance with regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in updating documentation for an existing medical program; and/or I have reviewed medical policies and provided recommendations for improvement; and/or I have implemented procedures involved in obtaining accreditation (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), etc.). I have referenced program statements or policy regarding dispensing medications or providing medical services; and/or I have involved in the accreditation process with participation in planning meetings (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), etc.); and/or I have provided recommendations to streamline processes or procedures. I have responded to a medical related Inmate Request to Staff Member (Cop-Out); and/or I have followed proper procedures in the preparation of an Incident Report or other medical related form; and/or I have submitted a suggestion for higher level approval on hours of operation or improved services; and/or I have referred to standard operating procedures or policies in completing tasks. None of the above. 7 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must effectively interact with physicians, subordinate staff, co-workers, inmates and outside resources to assist in the orderly operation of the department. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, and with the institution&rsquo;s executive staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the medical needs of an inmate/patient with other involved parties; and/or I have obtained information and relayed findings to supervisor; and/or I have coordinated requirements for a medical escort trip with departmental staff; and/or I have provided pertinent information during internal meetings. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have provided patient education (i.e., Admission and Orientation (A&O), basic medical information); and/or I have contacted other facilities/physicians to obtain required medical information. I have provided medical updates during departmental meetings; and/or I have obtained information from vendors and relayed findings to supervisor on new medical equipment available for purchase; and/or I have coordinated medical escort trip details with other departments. None of the above. 8 The Assistant Health Services Administrator is responsible for recognizing the potential of subordinate staff and assisting subordinates in attaining their professional goals. Additionally, he/she is responsible for providing supervision, direction, and guidance to their subordinates in a firm, fair, and objective manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have assisted in the completion of a departmental project; and/or I have assisted in planning of intra-departmental activities within institution. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have ensured work of others is completed within assigned deadlines; and/or I have reviewed work of others for accuracy prior to final draft submission. I have mentored newly hired staff; and/or I have provided instructions to a patient regarding aftercare; and/or I have gained the cooperation of an inmate/patient/client refusing to take prescribed medications. None of the above. 9 The Assistant Health Services Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing correspondence related to medical needs and programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an Incident Report; and/or I have responded to Inmate Request to a Staff Member (BP-9); and/or I have participated in an operational review or audit of a health care facility; and/or I have prepared justification to correct a noted error in a written procedure; and/or I have prepared recurring memorandums. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared descriptive medical log entries; and/or I have prepared a response regarding a congressional inquiry. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).