Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: All applicants MUST electronically upload copy of their license at the time you apply. The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license. Failure to provide this documentation will result in loss of consideration for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Chief Psychologist must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological tests and make inferences about inmates&rsquo; behavior in order to effectively counsel and treat them. He/she also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have observed psychological assessments being conducted such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence or vocational assessment; and/or I have assisted in the writing of the results of psychological assessments and their associated recommendations; and/or I have observed the feedback sessions summarizing the psychological battery of assessments with a client. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least one different type of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 7 The Chief Psychologist must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substance abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made treatment recommendations for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have received training in at least two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have, as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, made treatment recommendations based upon knowledge of treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have, as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, received training in at least two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention or biofeedback; and/or I have, as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. None of the above. 8 The Chief Psychologist must have knowledge of mood disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand inmate behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of his/her major duties is counseling inmates individually and in a group setting. He/she must have knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychodynamic, psycho-educational or biofeedback in a correctional environment; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychodynamic, psycho-educational or feedback; and/or I have provided group treatment in a modified therapeutic community format; and/or I have provided psychoeducational treatment as part of a treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated evidence-based treatment groups. I have, as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychodynamic, psycho-educational or feedback; and/or I have, as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have, as a graduate student in a psychology doctoral program, provided group treatment in a modified therapeutic community format. None of the above. 9 The Chief Psychologist must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have developed improved operational procedures for office; and/or I have assisted in developing and presenting specialized training; and/or I have represented work unit at department head meeting; and/or I have organized audit/operational review assignments and paperwork. None of the above. 10 The Chief Psychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution by resolving conflicts and assisting in crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed a superior’s commands as part of a response team following a natural disaster; and/or I have used confrontation avoidance techniques as part of a response team; and/or I have co-mediated a conflict. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: All applicants MUST electronically upload copy of their license at the time you apply. The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license. Failure to provide this documentation will result in loss of consideration for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Chief Psychologist must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological tests and make inferences about inmates&rsquo; behavior in order to effectively counsel and treat them. He/she also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments in a correctional setting such as: neurological screening tests, personality inventories like the MMPI, intelligence tests like the WAIS; and/or I have written psychological reports which included assessment results; and/or I have conducted research that included psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments. I have conducted at least one different type of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology or vocational assessment; and/or I have participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. None of the above. 7 The Chief Psychologist must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substance abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment techniques such as: cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, suicide prevention, drug treatment, relaxation techniques, problem-solving, anger management or group counseling; and/or I have assisted in conducting research on the effectiveness of treatment interventions; and/or I have assisted in identifying and referring patients who could benefit from treatment involving psychotropic medications or neurological interventions. I have made treatment recommendations for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation; and/or I have received training in at least two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. None of the above. 8 The Chief Psychologist must have knowledge of mood disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand inmate behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of his/her major duties is counseling inmates individually and in a group setting. He/she must have knowledge of cognitive functioning and substance abuse as it relates to personality and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychodynamic, psycho-educational or feedback; and/or I have provided group treatment in a modified therapeutic community format; and/or I have provided psychoeducational treatment as part of a treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated evidence-based treatment groups. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychodynamic, psycho-educational or biofeedback in a correctional environment; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. I have provided individual and group psychotherapy with the goal of meeting specific client needs using a variety of treatment techniques such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback or psychodynamic or psycho-educational; and/or I have developed client specific treatment plans with measurable treatment goals; and/or I have conducted research that included the evaluation of treatment effectiveness as part of the study; and/or I have provided treatment in a modified therapeutic community format. None of the above. 9 The Chief Psychologist must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievances before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. 10 The Chief Psychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution by resolving conflicts and assisting in crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).