Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 5 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have one full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university meets the requirements for positions at GS-7. I meet the superior academic achievement provision described in the vacancy announcement. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describe your experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have retail experience providing customer service while meeting the needs of visitors. I have experience in a cultural or educational institution interacting with visitors meeting their needs. I have experience in a cultural or educational institution interacting with visitors and volunteers or interns, meeting their needs in a fast paced high volume environment. I have experience providing customer service that is not described in the above options. None of the above. 3 Which of the following statements describe your experience with daily visitor services floor operations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing strategies to address crowd control and line management. I have experience directly assisting visitors during their museum visits. I have taken training on crowd control and line management. I have experience assisting with interpretive programs such as tours, lectures, films, and public performances. I have experience working with large groups visits (ex – schools, camps, tour companies, etc.) I have experience presenting interpretive programs such as tours, lectures, films, and public performances. I have experience maintaining operations of a site (ex., restocking, janitorial duties, operational integrity of exhibits, etc.). None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of crowd management and emergency procedures? Answer to this question is required I have completed coursework or training in crowd management and emergency procedures. I have experience in crowd management and emergency procedures. I have experience in maintaining safety policies and procedures. I have experience in crowd management and emergency procedures in a high volume museum, cultural or educational setting. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance and mentoring to subordinate employees or peers. I have ensured that staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have worked with diverse groups and have experience assigning work, resolving conflicts and improving performance. I have more than 1 year experience in coordinating the work of staff, contractor or volunteer. I have served in an official capacity as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have evaluated the performance of subordinates. I have experience in training staff, contractors or volunteers in a museum of cultural institution. I have assigned work to staff based on priorities, the requirements of assignments and the capabilities of the employee. None of the above. 6 Which of the following indicates the work experience you have had with daily floor operations in a museum, cultural institution or similar institution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Readjusting and maintaining adequate staffing levels. Meeting/Greeting visitors. Monitoring and reporting any needed building repairs. Daily maintenance and upkeep of the information desk. I do not have experience with floor operations. Managing large crowds. 7 Which of the following best describes your level of experience working with student and adult volunteers? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in planning volunteer activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have had education or training in planning volunteer activities for a museum or comparable educational institution but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have assisted in carrying out volunteer programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have helped plan and implement volunteer programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution as a regular part of the job independently, and/or only under general supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised and trained others in the planning and implementation of volunteer programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. 8 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead volunteers and staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to volunteers and employees. I have provided leadership to volunteers and employees. I have reviewed volunteer and employee's work. I have identified developmental and training needs of volunteers and employees I have planned work to be accomplished by employees. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated volunteers and employees. I have established deadlines for volunteers and employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by volunteers and employees. None of the above. 9 Which of the following technologies and/or software do you have experience in using. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Microsoft applications Data Analytics (Dexibit, etc.) Editing Documents/PDF's (Adobe, Foxit, etc.) Digital Interactives (Kiosks, touch screens, etc.) Crowd management systems (SenSource, digital clickers, etc.) Personal computers or laptops Tablets/iPad Museum Apps (Smartify, etc.) Digital assistive devices Mobile tour devices None of the above 10 Which among the following experiences describes your use of database systems in support of a volunteer program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently created reports such as hours accumulated, training completed, and recognition received using volunteer management software. I have independently developed and managed scheduling calendars within a volunteer management software that support a volunteer program. I have independently used a volunteer database to track hours, training, and recognition. I have independently entered information into a volunteer database. None of the above. Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service related to the work of this position. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following training functions have you performed successfully for a visitor services team?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided crowd management training to staff. I have provided wayfinding/directional flow training to staff. I have instructed staff in the areas of visitor engagement and interpretation. I have demonstrated to staff best practices in culture sensitivity. I have demonstrated to staff best practices in enabling access for visitors with special needs and disabilities. I have demonstrated to staff best practices in enabling access for visitors with cognitive/sensory impairments. I have demonstrated to staff the use of assistive technology to enable access for visitors with special needs, disabilities or cognitive/sensory impairments. I do not have experience in any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following describes your work experience managing visits or tours for a Native cultural organization or an organization with Native collections with a variety of constituencies. (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have managed visits or tours with researchers and academics. I have managed visits or tours with school, camp and tour groups. I have managed visits or tours with museum professionals. I have managed visits or tours with tribal visitors. I have managed visits or tours with members or donors. I have managed visits or tours with the general public. None of the above. 4 Select the answer that best describes your ability to retain composure under stressful situations when dealing with a variety of people. Answer to this question is required My previous positions have not required me to deal with a variety of people in stressful situations I have had limited experience in handling people in stressful situations. When it was required my supervisor or senior staff member was there to provide assistance I have served in a position where I had to maintain composure in stressful situations dealing with a variety of people. I was usually able to do this without the intervention of my supervisor I have served in a position where I must often maintain composure in stressful situations dealing with a variety of people and am able to do this without the intervention of my supervisor or senior staff 5 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience working with visitors, volunteers and staff to coordinate staffing schedules and support public programs in a museum, cultural/historical site or other facilities that receive large numbers of public visitors? Answer to this question is required I have experience scheduling and coordinating staff schedules and supporting museum programs for visitors and in a fast paced, high-volume environment. I have experience assisting in the scheduling and coordinating of staff schedules and supporting museum programs for visitors in a museum, cultural/historical site or other facility that receives large number of visitors. I have experience scheduling and coordinating staff and supporting museum programs that is not described in the above options. I do not have experience scheduling and coordinating staff schedules or supporting museum programs. 6 I have performed the following leadership functions successfully in projects that I have led or was assigned senior staff responsibility. Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines and expectations Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 7 Which of the following aspects of volunteer management do you have experience in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Recruitment Screening/Interviewing Orientation/Training Retention/Engagement Appreciation/Recognition Reporting None of the above. 8 Which of the following reflects your experience in training and developing staff, volunteers, and interns? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have assisted with training and/or workshops. I have developed training modules, schedules, and/or workshops. I have implemented policies and procedures to staff. I have developed policy and procedures for staff. I have assisted with preparing trainings and/or workshops on a multitude of topics that included Native American content, interpretive technique, and pedagogy. I have developed and conducted trainings and/or workshops on a multitude of topics that included Native American content, interpretive technique, and pedagogy. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in performing federal government procurement using a financial system? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of procurement principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. On a monthly basis I have entered purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. On a daily basis I have entered purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. I have reviewed procurement documents (scope-of works, sole-source justifications, checklists, etc.) for accuracy, completion, and content before processing purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. I have reviewed procurement documents (scope-of-works, sole-source justifications, checklists, etc.) and have advised requestors for accuracy, completion, and content before processing purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience performing administrative tasks in support of the budget process? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of budget principles, practices, and processes through on-the-job and/or classroom training. I have experience with the Federal budget request process and timeliness. I obtain, compile, and summarize narrative information and quantitative budget data. I verify the costs of line items in the budget and enter the costs in standard forms and schedules. I extract budget and program data from computer printouts of accounting records, forms, and reports for use by co-workers. I justify budget requests to higher level budget officials. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to anticipate needs for funds or reprogramming actions. I review, verify and analyze submitted data for consistency with financial and program objectives and adherence to instructions. I have assumed responsibility for preparation and coordination of schedules, graphs, and tables included in budget submissions. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.