Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Candidates for the GS-09&nbsp;grade level must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower&nbsp;grade level in the Federal service.&nbsp; Specialized experience is defined as having experience: 1.) Providing exercise activities (i.e. Yoga instruction, Pilates instruction (mat, reformer), Studio Cycling Classes, Group Strength Classes); 2.) Personal&nbsp;training individuals in exercise activities (i.e. cardiovascular conditioning, strength conditioning, mobility, and balance); 3.) Experience with and/or conducting exercise programs for special clinical populations (i.e.&nbsp;people with conditions&nbsp;such as hypertension, diabetes, obesity, or metabolic syndrome). &nbsp; 1 Select the following subject matter(s) that you are familiar with when screening for health and physical fitness. Answer to this question is required Health screening and risk stratification Cardiovascular condition Pulse rate and evaluation during rest and exercise Measures of strength, balance, mobility, flexibility and posture None of the above Grade: 11 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you performed or implemented a progressive resistive training program for clients with specific fitness goals Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a certification in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the exercise activities you have led: Answer to this question is required Yoga Pilates, Mats Pilates, Reformer Strength Programs (machine, circuit, ball) Studio Cycling General nutrition Stress reduction/meditation Healthy weight reduction None of the above 3 Have you developed educational programs and activities for the following topics? Answer to this question is required Physical Fitness Exercising Safely Injury Prevention Stress Management General Nutrition Healthy Weight Reduction None of the above 4 Do you have a significant accumulation of time teaching&nbsp;YOGA and leading W omen's and S eniors programs? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Have you planned group and individual exercise programs that build cardiovascular endurance, balance, mobility, flexibility, and posture? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Have you developed health education and preventive health service programs (like blood pressure screening, stress screening, etc) in a wellness center/health club environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Have you led group exercise activities? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Have you ever developed recreational programs in a wellness center/health club environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.