Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position at the journeyman level. Failure to specifically identify skills equivalent to a journeyman may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-04 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-04 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Material Handler Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with them, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have led co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have explained basic instructions to new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted organizing work assignments and materials. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have determined material time, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained, apprentices, intermediate workers and helpers; and/or I have supervised large inmate crew in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs. I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated materials and manpower needed; and/or I have provided training to new workers; and/or I have organized work assignments. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, a Materials Handler Supervisor must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have an interest in working in a correctional institution. I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a day-to-day basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 5 Materials Handler Supervisors must be knowledgeable of trade practices, alternative methods, production, design and handling. They must have the ability to keep things neat, clear and in order. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have estimated material and manpower needs; and/or I have explained work procedures; and/or I have supervised small group of workers; and/or I have trained for new workers in warehouse procedures. I have worked as a foreman supervising workers in the line of work of warehousing; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments. I have worked in leading co-workers on an occasional basis; and/or I have organized material/equipment to meet deadlines; and/or I have used automated material identification equipment such as bar code wands, computer terminals, and laser scanners. None of the above. 6 Materials Handler Supervisors must have the ability to interpret instructions and directives and to carry out oral and written orders. They must also have the ability to comply with rules, regulations and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed general instructions in storing and moving materials on a day-to-day basis; and/or I have used automated equipment according to manufacturer’s guidelines; and/or I have stored hazardous materials according to appropriate regulatory requirements. I have completed routine tasks following established procedures; and/or I have followed standardized operation procedures for storing material; and/or I have completed shipping documents in accordance with supervisor’s direction. I have supervised, interpreted, and instructed subordinates in proper loading and unloading, packing, and storage; and/or I have, in accordance with agency regulations, determined configuration, set-up, movement, rearrangement, and traffic flow; and/or I have worked with high degree of independence in determining sequences of loading/unloading, implementing the movement of materials from dock to bin or from storage to shipping. None of the above. 7 Materials Handler Supervisors must be knowledgeable of all the materials used in the variety of trades included in this job. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience working with knowledge of a wide range of materials and safely stored materials without wasted space; and/or I have operated warehouse tractors, forklifts, and other general purpose vehicles; and/or I have ensured stock was adequate and fresh. I have, with supervisor’s help, chosen proper material or made substitutions; and/or I have used manual dollies and hand tools to complete work assignments; and/or I have used computer equipment to determine stock locations. I have served as a supervisor or leader over several subordinate staff and have verified, sorted, stored; and/or I have interpreted instructions for subordinates; and/or I have defined specific properties of materials. None of the above. 8 Material Handler Supervisors must maintain a safe work environment as well as appropriate speed and quality of work levels and safety training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed tasks that required speed, accuracy, and coordination of hand, foot, and body movement; and/or I have taught safety procedures to staff from outside the department. I have worked without evidence of on-the-job injury; and/or I have performed tasks such as loading and storing equipment, supplies, and boxes without loss of quality. I have performed duties efficiently and without hazard to self or others; and/or I have operated equipment according to recognized safe practices; and/or I have performed work assignments with little or no danger to others; and/or I have performed basic warehouse tasks timely and efficiently with no safety violations; and/or I have attended safety training within the department. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).