Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes AND this experience is clearly outlined in my resume. No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have completed or will complete 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent) by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the time in grade requirements for this position because I have not completed or will not complete 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent) by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a non-competitive applicant eligible for re-promotion or reassignment to the GS-15 grade level. I am a competitive applicant and need to compete for the GS-15 grade level. IF YOU ARE ELIGIBLE FOR REASSIGNMENT, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION TO MERIT PROMOTION PROCEDURES, AND YOU MAY SKIP THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS. IF YOU MUST COMPETE FOR A PROMOTION, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT. YOU MUST COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Wardens must be able to monitor and analyze indicators of employee and inmate morale, discipline and behavior, investigate and resolve potentially disruptive incidents and problems, and respond appropriately to emergency situations such as escape, fire, riot, and major disturbances. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained contact with staff and inmates through activities such as mainline and open-house; and/or I have responded to inmates' concerns in writing; and/or I have visited various areas of the institution regularly to observe activities; and/or I have reported unusual behavior or activities to the appropriate officials in a correctional facility. I have visited and initiated dialogue with inmates; and/or I have directed mock emergency drills; and/or I have served as a member of a Program Review Team; and/or I have taught an annual refresher class on emergency response. I have gathered information on potential gang activity, consulted with staff, and offered solutions; and/or I have used existing procedures to monitor and relay information on inmate and staff morale and security issues; and/or I have actively participated as a member of a task force by providing input to improve emergency response process. I have directed an actual emergency response effort; and/or I have led a task force to develop and implement an emergency-management process. I have established and implemented a process to monitor and relay information about staff and inmate morale and security issues to appropriate departments; and/or I have identified and directed efforts to resolve occurrences/disturbances that occurred in a correctional setting. None of the above. 5 Wardens must be able to evaluate, develop, and implement policies that ensure efficient management of institution operations and programs and make necessary changes to comply with Bureau requirements, objectives, and goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used institution supplements to maintain operations and security; and/or I have participated in the operational review process and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to CEO on procedural changes; and/or I have acted as Associate Warden at an institution. I have reviewed operations and security procedures to ensure compliance with policies, directives and regulations; and/or I have instructed subordinates on policy directives; and/or I have assisted in drafting policy supplements; and/or I have been a member of a local Operational Review Team. I have directed comprehensive reviews of division operations and made recommendations to realign responsibilities; and/or I have chaired a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have developed pilot projects regarding operations or security issues. I have worked as a supervisor/manager at more than one security level institution; and/or I have worked as an administrator at the Central or Regional Office involved with policy development and dissemination or oversight of institution operations. None of the above. 6 Wardens must effectively interact and communicate with persons inside the Bureau (local union officials, subordinates, peers, and executive staff) and persons outside the Bureau (the public, press, and staff of local, state, and other federal agencies and courts) in coordinating institution programs to fulfill the mission and objectives of the Bureau. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed, initiated or led community outreach programs such as the community relations board, federal family meetings, EEO programs; and/or I have hosted press on a tour or held a press conference; and/or I have served on committees involving other federal and state agencies; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve labor-management relations issues; and/or I have mentored subordinate staff. I have spoken at civic events or in classes; and/or I have written articles for organization's newsletter; and/or I have participated in national or regional meetings, including strategic planning; and/or I have served as a department head or team leader. I have assisted in public relations activities such as open house for outside groups and tours; and/or I have attended institution social functions; and/or I have served as member of a committee or task force addressing issues affecting the organization or agency; and/or I have attended a training course such as interpersonal communication or supervisory training. None of the above. 7 Wardens must convey information in a clear and concise manner both within and outside the organization, regarding a variety of issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have attended meetings and visited work sites to talk to inmates; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates on job performance; and/or I have completed a public speaking course. I have conducted press conferences, hosted open houses, or given public relations tours; and/or I have orally presented an Executive Staff paper; negotiated conflicts with inmates, staff, or the union; and/or I have facilitated major institution function; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have initiated contacts with subordinates to provide feedback and resolve concerns. I have conducted staff and inmate training; and/or I have responded to inmate concerns in special housing units, or on the compound; and/or I have actively participated by providing input in department or Warden's staff meetings; and/or I have made presentations at civic clubs, schools, recalls, retirement, recognition, or inmate graduation functions; and/or I have maintained an open door policy for subordinates and provided counseling when necessary. None of the above. 8 Wardens must motivate staff through personal contacts, appropriate rewards, and corrective actions, and follow-up and provide feedback to employees in order to achieve optimal performance and desired ends. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made daily rounds to visit and interact with staff; and/or I have actively participated in staff recalls and presented awards; and/or I have attended and provided information at departmental meetings; and/or I have taught classes at annual refresher training. I have developed a new system for recognizing staff accomplishments; and/or I have initiated a regular forum for line-level subordinates; and/or I have recommended corrective and disciplinary actions against staff. I have served as mentor to one or more employees; and/or I have directed emergency response efforts; and/or I have regularly counseled and structured developmental activities for employees. I have made recommendations to CEO to improve routine functions; and/or I have attended EEO or other meetings that promote staff morale; and/or I have served as member of a committee or work group. None of the above. 9 Wardens must effectively use strategic planning methods to plan short and long term initiatives, establish priorities for distributing resources based on program needs, and monitor available resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have attended institution budget meetings; and/or I have reviewed purchase requests by subordinates; and/or I have attended strategic planning sessions; and/or I have monitored workload and followed-up on areas of concern in daily operations or identified in program reviews. I have served as a Department Head; and/or I have served as cost center manager and property officer; and/or I have provided feedback and recommendations as a member of an operational or program review team; and/or I have managed budget within allocations. I have directed an institution wide strategic planning retreat; and/or I have chaired committees that provided oversight on work programming, budgets, etc.; and/or I have reprogrammed operational funds for high-priority initiatives; and/or I have developed and assessed the annual project priority list for an institution; and/or I have established a system for controlling overtime expenditures. None of the above. 10 Wardens must be able to systematically identify, monitor, investigate, and analyze operational and program issues affecting the management of the institution, and must be able to establish appropriate responses to both short- and long-term problems or issues affecting the institution. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed institution's strategic planning program or operational review process; and/or I have created a systematic approach to monitor progress toward performance goals; and/or I have chaired a workgroup to analyze issues and initiate corrective action; and/or I have managed several disciplines. I have used research to identify problem areas in an institution; and/or I have written institution supplements which reflected program goals; and/or I have served on a task force or Program Review team; and/or I have briefed CEO on impending issues and made recommendations to address them. I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations with similar institutions; and/or I have attended strategic planning sessions to monitor progress toward performance goals; and/or I have attended work groups; and/or I have provided information on observations of a group of possibly disruptive inmates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? The performance evaluation used in scoring must be the most recent rating of record. If you don't have a current performance rating, you are presumed as "Achieved Results". Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Achieved Results or Presumptive Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information,creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process (i.e. performance, awards, etc.) may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 3 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 - 15 points over 15 points 3 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3.1 If you are not a current BOP employee, are you a DOJ Surplus or Displaced Employee? Yes, I am a DOJ Surplus or Displaced Employee AND I will provide all required documentation by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. No, I am not a DOJ Surplus or Displaced Employee. You will continue to receive consideration for this position until the next vacancy announcement open period, or until you are selected for this position or comparable position. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).