Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) or Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree from a school approved by the American Dental Association (ADA) or&nbsp;the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND B. Applicants must have passed the National Board Dental Examinations (NBDE) which are developed and administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE) and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Applicants must have one or more full years of experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing professional dentistry work for GS-12 level and above assignments.&nbsp; AND D. Applicants must be able to distinguish shades of color. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST provide transcripts and dental license documentation to receive consideration. Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded. 2 In addition to meeting the above basic requirements, Applicants must have completed a 3-year residency program in dentistry, oral health, craniofacial sciences, or a related medical science; or have equivalent experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, and/or training.&nbsp; Do you meet the additional requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT for this position? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Dental Officers must be able to determine patient treatment needs and select appropriate dental materials and fabricate prosthetics to restore dentition. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and delivered maxillary/mandibular partial denture (removable); and/or I have restored an edentoulous space with a 3 unit fixed bridge; and/or I have provided quadrant dentistry to patients; and/or I have designed and delivered a full denture that will oppose natural dentition. I have restored teeth using alloys (amalgam), glass ionomers and resins; and/or I have made complete dentures (F/F opposing each other); and/or I have restored a tooth with a cast or temporary crown; and/or I have made custom fitted nightguards. I have designed and delivered an over denture on retained abutment teeth; and/or I have placed periodontal intracoronal/extracoronal splinting for stabilization (wire and composite/casting; occlusal equilibrations); and/or I have designed, selected and placed a cast or prefabricated post. None of the above. 5 Dental Officers must have the ability to recognize dental diseases and provide appropriate professional treatment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have diagnosed irreversible pulpititis, abscessed or necrotic molars and provided endodontic treatment using gutta percha; and/or I have managed and provided preventative care to patients who have undergone radiation therapy; and/or I have laid a flap and restored sub-gingival caries; and/or I have properly taken and interpreted panoramic and occlusal radiographs. I have diagnosed abscessed, necrotic, or irreversible pulpitis on anterior teeth and provided root canal treatment using gutta perch; and/or I have classified periodontal disease and performed root planning and scaling; and/or I have performed an oral cancer screening exam and made the appropriate referral or biopsy suspicious lesions; and/or I have taken periapical and bitewing radiographs. I have diagnosed and treated patients who presented with thrush; and/or I have diagnosed abscessed or necrotic bicuspid teeth and provided endodontic treatment using gutta percha, or hybrid techniques; and/or I have managed and provided preventative periodontal treatment for patients diagnosed with diabetes; and/or I have taken, mounted and interpreted full mouth radiographic series. None of the above. 6 Dental Officers may encounter difficult patients and must utilize good communication skills in relaying and/or demonstrating proper dental care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed patients on how to properly brush and floss their teeth; and/or I have increased patients' health literacy as it related to tooth decay, periodontal disease, and oral cancer; and/or I have discussed the use of fluorides and sealants as preventative measures. I have explained the relationship of good oral hygiene and nutrition related to dental caries and periodontal disease; and/or I have explained how basic nutrition and the abstinence from tobacco and alcohol relates to good oral health; and/or I have counseled patients regarding the risk factor for oral cancer. I have instructed and developed a program for geriatric patients about root caries and other related health problems; and/or I have instructed and developed a program for mildly retarded patients about oral health; and/or I have communicated and coordinated care for institutionalized and/or incarcerated patients. None of the above. 7 Dental Officers are responsible for exodontia and oral surgery.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed excisional and incisional biopsy; and/or I have performed excision of benign minor tumors (ex. fibroma); and/or I have performed mucosal/gingival flap procedures (can lay a full thickness flap) mucogingival surgeries and flap management; and/or I have performed extractions on soft tissue impacted 3rd molars; and/or I have performed treatment of avulsed teeth. I have provided care for minor lacerations (suture and post operative management); and/or I have performed incisional biopsy of oral lesions; and/or I have performed extractions on multi-rooted (molar) teeth, to include sectioning; and/or I have performed simple alveoplasty. I have performed a simple extraction on single rooted teeth; and/or I have managed and treated a minor infection using incision and drainage (I & D) techniques; and/or I have managed postoperative complications from exondontia (dry socket, infection, and bleeding); and/or I have performed suturing using different techniques. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Human Resources Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Social Media (Linkedln, Twitter, etc.) Other 7 Which of the following factors listed below influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Please select 1-5 answers. Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP 8 Which of the following factors listed below was the single most important factor that influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP Not addressed above 8.1 Please briefly describe below the important factor, which was not addressed, that influenced your decision to apply: Maximum length of 75 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).