Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet ONE of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. &nbsp; Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in the fields of dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management, or related science. The educational program must have been accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND), or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For dietitian positions, the curriculum must have been in accordance with the qualifying requirements established by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) (formerly American Dietetic Association (ADA) prior to January 1, 2012) in effect at the time of graduation. OR Completion of a coordinated undergraduate program, internship, or other clinical component approved by AND (formerly ADA) for dietitians or nutritionists. &nbsp; OR &nbsp; Professional registration as a Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts or professional registration at the time you apply. NOTE: Employees currently assigned to positions in this occupational series as of September 2017 will be considered to have met the basic requirements for the position occupied. 1 Do you meet ONE of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet AT LEAST ONE of the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts or registration for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum qualifications, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded OR provide a professional registration at the time you apply. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. Applicants applying for this position MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Placement Factor: Successful completion and maintenance of dietetic registration as defined by the Commission on Dietetic Registration. 4 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am a Registered Dietitian and maintain licensing through continuing education. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit a copy of their registration as proof of being a Registered Dietitian. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Clinical Dietitian in the Federal Bureau of Prisons must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people within the organization as well as with people outside of the organization.&nbsp;He/she is responsible for conducting patient education in both an individual and group setting.&nbsp;He/she must possess the ability to effectively convey dietary information to individuals of varying backgrounds in the correctional environment.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided educational sessions to physicians or other health care practitioners within the facility; and/or I have conducted both individual and group diet counseling sessions for patients; and/or I have actively participated in interdisciplinary care plan conferences and committees; and/or I have provided recommendations for conferring with members of the health care team about patients’ nutritional needs or response to care. I have provided pre-planned educational sessions to physicians or other health care practitioners within the facility; and/or I have provided basic recommendations regarding medical diets to food service staff within the facility; and/or I have conducted individual diet counseling sessions for patients; and/or I have attended interdisciplinary care plan conferences; and/or I have regularly conferred with members of the health care team about patients’ nutritional needs or response to care. I have assisted in providing information from preplanned educational sessions to physicians or other health care practitioners within the facility; and/or I have provided general nutrition information to food service staff; and/or I have conducted individual diet counseling sessions with patients; and/or I have attended committee meetings. None of the above. 6 The Clinical Dietitian must possess effective written communication skills in order to successfully perform the required functions of the position.&nbsp;He/she routinely records information in medical records/nutrition care plans, prepares comprehensive nutritional assessments, develops instructional materials, and develops/revises new policies and procedures for administering the nutrition and dietary programs of the facility.&nbsp;He/she prepares complex documents pertaining to the organization&rsquo;s diet program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented nutrition assessment, diagnosis, intervention, and monitoring/evaluation in patient medical records; and/or I have documented diet records in the department; and/or I have prepared diet reports using established guidelines. I have modified nutrition education materials for a hospitalized patient; and/or I have assisted in developing criteria for nutrition screening and assessments; and/or I have provided recommendations for recording nutritional information in the medical record; and/or I have assisted in writing the department’s diet manual. I have selected or prepared dietary information for a hospitalized patient; and/or I have completed nutritional screening and assessments using organization developed criteria; and/or I have provided documentation of nutrition care in medical records/nutrition care plans according to policy; and/or I have routinely followed established procedures for recording nutrition information in the medical record; and/or I have provided suggestions for updating the department’s diet manual. None of the above. 7 The Clinical Dietitian must be able to design/plan programs applicable in a correctional environment and ensure compliance of national standards, such as healthcare accreditation organizations and Long Term Care (LTC) nutrition provisional goals (e.g., documentation of nutrition care assessments and plans at mandated intervals).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided recommendations for policies/procedures for the dietetics department in compliance with federal, state, local or healthcare accreditation organization regulations; and/or I have utilized the facility’s menus to ensure nutritional adequacy; and/or I have suggested operational improvements from data collected for quality improvement activities of nutrition care; and/or I have designed individualized nutrition care plans for medically stable patients and provided follow up of nutrition intervention. I have utilized established policies/procedures in performing duties in the dietetics department; and/or I have collaborated with other staff members on menu evaluation for nutritional adequacy; and/or I have collected assigned data for quality improvement activities; and/or I have collected patient assessment data for designing individualized nutrition care plans. I have provided recommendations for policies/procedures for the dietetics department in compliance with federal, state, local or healthcare accreditation organization regulations; and/or I have utilized the facility’s menus to ensure nutritional adequacy; and/or I have suggested operational improvements from data collected for quality improvement activities of nutrition care; and/or I have designed individualized nutrition care plans for medically stable patients and provided follow up of nutrition intervention. None of the above. 8 The Clinical Dietitian must be able to provide a comprehensive nutrition care plan for a Long Term Care (LTC) institution in a correctional environment.&nbsp;He/she must conduct quality control and quality assurance routinely to verify adherence to food service standards.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in planning menus for all diet modifications for a facility requiring quantity cooking which provided three (3) meals per day; and/or I have assisted in the standardization of quantity diet recipes; and/or I have assisted in establishing diet quality control standards for food preparation for medical diets in meeting the nutritional needs of Long Term Care (LTC) patients/inmates. I have utilized planned diet menus in providing medical diets; and/or I have observed quality control measures for food preparation for medical diets; and/or I have participated in a workgroup that provided quantity food preparation skills. I have provided recommendations for the diet menus for a facility requiring quantity cooking which provided three (3) meals per day; and/or I have utilized the organization’s standardized diet recipes; and/or I have utilized quality control measures for food preparation for medical diets in meeting the nutritional needs of Long Term Care (LTC) inmates. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet ONE of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. &nbsp; Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in the fields of dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management, or related science. The educational program must have been accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND), or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For dietitian positions, the curriculum must have been in accordance with the qualifying requirements established by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) (formerly American Dietetic Association (ADA) prior to January 1, 2012) in effect at the time of graduation. OR Completion of a coordinated undergraduate program, internship, or other clinical component approved by AND (formerly ADA) for dietitians or nutritionists. &nbsp; OR &nbsp; Professional registration as a Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts or professional registration at the time you apply. NOTE: Employees currently assigned to positions in this occupational series as of September 2017 will be considered to have met the basic requirements for the position occupied. 1 Do you meet ONE of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet AT LEAST ONE of the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts or registration for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum qualifications, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded OR provide a professional registration at the time you apply. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. Applicants applying for this position MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Placement Factor: Successful completion and maintenance of dietetic registration as defined by the Commission on Dietetic Registration. 4 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am a Registered Dietitian and maintain licensing through continuing education. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit a copy of their registration as proof of being a Registered Dietitian. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Clinical Dietitian in the Federal Bureau of Prisons must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people within the organization as well as with people outside of the organization.&nbsp;He/she is responsible for conducting patient education in both an individual and group setting.&nbsp;He/she must possess the ability to effectively convey dietary information to individuals of varying backgrounds in the correctional environment.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and provided educational sessions to physicians or other health care practitioners outside the facility; and/or I have provided consultations to food service staff outside the facility; and/or I have established criteria for individual and group counseling sessions for patients; and/or I have directed interdisciplinary teams, task forces, or committees; and/or I have implemented criteria for conferring with members of the health care team about patients’ nutritional needs or response to care. I have provided educational sessions to physicians or other health care practitioners within the facility; and/or I have conducted both individual and group diet counseling sessions for patients; and/or I have actively participated in interdisciplinary care plan conferences and committees; and/or I have provided recommendations for conferring with members of the health care team about patients’ nutritional needs or response to care. I have provided pre-planned educational sessions to physicians or other health care practitioners within the facility; and/or I have provided basic recommendations regarding medical diets to food service staff within the facility; and/or I have conducted individual diet counseling sessions for patients; and/or I have attended interdisciplinary care plan conferences; and/or I have regularly conferred with members of the health care team about patients’ nutritional needs or response to care. None of the above. 6 The Clinical Dietitian must possess effective written communication skills in order to successfully perform the required functions of the position.&nbsp;He/she routinely records information in medical records/nutrition care plans, prepares comprehensive nutritional assessments, develops instructional materials, and develops/revises new policies and procedures for administering the nutrition and dietary programs of the facility.&nbsp;He/she prepares complex documents pertaining to the organization&rsquo;s diet program.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified nutrition education materials for a hospitalized patient; and/or I have assisted in developing criteria for nutrition screening and assessments; and/or I have provided recommendations for recording nutritional information in the medical record; and/or I have assisted in writing the department’s diet manual. I have prepared a diet training manual or updated existing organizational policies and procedures; and/or I have revised institutional dietary policies and developed nutrition educational materials; and/or I have documented orders in inmate/patient medical records; and/or I have developed protocol for nutrition screening and assessments; and/or I have established standards for recording nutritional information in the medical record and long term nutrition care plans; and/or I have devised and implemented the department’s diet reference manual. I have selected or prepared dietary information for a hospitalized patient; and/or I have completed nutritional screening and assessments using organization developed criteria; and/or I have provided documentation of nutrition care in medical records/nutrition care plans according to policy; and/or I have routinely followed established procedures for recording nutrition information in the medical record; and/or I have provided suggestions for updating the department’s diet manual. None of the above. 7 The Clinical Dietitian must be able to design/plan programs applicable in a correctional environment and ensure compliance of national standards, such as healthcare accreditation organizations and Long Term Care (LTC) nutrition provisional goals (e.g., documentation of nutrition care assessments and plans at mandated intervals).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed policies/procedures for the dietetics department in compliance with federal, state, local, or Long Term Care (LTC) mandates and healthcare accreditation organization regulations; and/or I have evaluated a facility’s menus for nutritional adequacy, making changes when necessary; and/or I have designed, implemented and managed a diet quality improvement plan for nutrition care; and/or I have established criteria/protocol for nutrition care plans and follow up of nutrition interventions. I have assisted in developing policies/procedures for the dietetics department in compliance with federal, state, local or healthcare accreditation organization regulations; and/or I have assisted in evaluating a facility’s menus for nutritional adequacy; and/or I have assisted in implementing and managing the quality improvement plan for nutrition care; and/or I have designed individualized nutrition care plans for medically unstable patients/patients with complex conditions and provided follow up of nutrition interventions. I have provided recommendations for policies/procedures for the dietetics department in compliance with federal, state, local or healthcare accreditation organization regulations; and/or I have utilized the facility’s menus to ensure nutritional adequacy; and/or I have suggested operational improvements from data collected for quality improvement activities of nutrition care; and/or I have designed individualized nutrition care plans for medically stable patients and provided follow up of nutrition intervention. None of the above. 8 The Clinical Dietitian must be able to provide a comprehensive nutrition care plan for a Long Term Care (LTC) institution in a correctional environment. He/she must conduct quality control and quality assurance routinely to verify adherence to food service standards.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided recommendations for the diet menus for a facility requiring quantity cooking which provided three (3) meals per day; and/or I have utilized the organization's standardized diet recipes; and/or I have utilized quality control measures for food preparation for medical diets in meeting the nutritional needs of Long Term Care (LTC) inmates. I have planned menus for all diet modifications for a facility requiring quantity cooking which provided three (3) meals per day; and/or I have developed and implemented quantity standardized diet recipes; and/or I have established diet quality control standards for food preparation for medical diets in meeting the nutritional needs of Long Term Care (LTC) patients/inmates. I have assisted in planning menus for all diet modifications for a facility requiring quantity cooking which provided three (3) meals per day; and/or I have assisted in the standardization of quantity diet recipes; and/or I have assisted in establishing diet quality control standards for food preparation for medical diets in meeting the nutritional needs of Long Term Care (LTC) patients/inmates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).