Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [52909] To qualify at the GS-14 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service. Non-government experience should be of similar complexity. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized leading and supervising others; conducting complex and sensitive investigations with tact and discretion, securing facts and developing evidence; maintaining liasion with other law enforcement bodies; conducting investigative interviews, record searches, and obtaining sworn statements; preparing written reports of investigations and summaries. I do not possess the experience described above. 3 An applicant may not have reached his/her 37th birthday at the time of initial appointment to a Federal Law Enforcement covered position within the US Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General; select the answer choice that describes your age: Answer to this question is required I have not yet reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to 30 days from the closing date of this announcement. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have previous service credible under Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) law enforcement provisions sufficient to enable me to retire at age 57 with 20 years of creditable service. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position; however, I am eligible to apply based on veteran’s or other applicable hiring authorities. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position. I am not eligible to apply for this position. 4 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to identify rules, principles, or relationships that explain facts, data, or other information used in analyzing information to make correct inferences or accurate conclusions. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience reviewing and analyzing large volumes of complex and/or inconclusive data or forensic intelligence and identifying and describing key discrepancies and logical connections that directly advance the development and resolution of criminal investigative cases. I have experience reviewing and analyzing files, records, and other documents in varying formats and identifying discrepancies or linkages of a forensic nature to draw reasoned conclusions in support of mission-critical activities. I have some experience analyzing documents and identifying discrepancies or linkages, and using that information to draw reasoned conclusions. I do not meet any of the statements above. 5 [53052] Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of knowledge and conduct of investigations (i.e. knowledge and application of principles, practices, and techniques for conducting civil, criminal, and administrative investigations and documenting findings and conclusions in an efficient, accurate, and timely manner): Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting complex white-collar crime investigations, organized crime, and/or program fraud investigations involving financial investigative techniques that resulted in successful prosecutions at the federal level. I have experience conducting white-collar crime investigations, organized crime, and/or program fraud investigations involving financial investigative techniques that resulted in successful prosecutions at the federal level. I have experience conducting white-collar crime investigations, organized crime, and/or program fraud investigations involving financial investigative techniques that resulted in successful prosecutions at the state and local level. I have experience conducting criminal, civil, administrative and/or regulatory investigations involving financial investigative techniques. I do not possess the experience as described above. 6 Please indicate which basic criminal investigator training program you have completed successfully. Answer to this question is required I have completed basic criminal investigator training through either the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, FBI Academy, DEA Academy, AFOSI Academy, NIS/NCIS Academy, Postal Inspection Service, or the Army Criminal Investigations course. I have completed basic criminal investigator training program through another federal agency, the state, city, or private sector organization. I have not completed a basic criminal investigator training program. 7 Select one answer that best describes your level of knowledge of Federal criminal and civil violations; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders governing criminal investigations). Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required I have supervised those who have routinely interpreted and applied Federal criminal and/or civil law, agency and government laws, regulations and policies and executive orders in conducting their investigations. I have routinely interpreted and applied Federal criminal and/or civil law, agency and government laws, regulations and policies and executive orders in conducting my investigations. I have received training on how to interpret and apply Federal criminal and/or civil law, agency and government laws, regulations and policies and executive orders, in investigations. I do not possess the experience described above. 8 [53441] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to work in a team environment and maintain an effective working relationship with others? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 9 Select the one answer choice that best describes your ability to lead criminal investigators. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a permanent, first-line supervisor of criminal investigators with responsibility for providing guidance and direction to criminal investigators who report to me or another first-line supervisor. I have infrequent experience as a first-line supervisor of criminal investigators with responsibility for providing guidance and direction to criminal investigators who permanently report to another first-line supervisor. I have task-related, incidental experience providing technical guidance and direction to criminal investigators. I have no experience leading the work of criminal investigators. 10 [53042] Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill demonstrating external awareness (i.e. identifying and understanding economic, political, and social trends that affect the organizations) in conducting investigations: Answer to this question is required I have experience developing relationships with internal/external groups to complete work assignments. I have experience researching and analyzing trends affecting public sector organizations, but have not developed relationships with internal/external groups. I have completed coursework in Public Policy, Criminal Justice, Law or Public Administration, but have not researched/analyze trends affecting public sector organizations. I have experience gathering information pertaining to the Federal Government but have not completed coursework in Public Policy, Law, Criminal Justice, or Public Administration. I do not possess the experience/training described above. 11 [17550] Select the example(s) that describe your experience motivating others. Answer to this question is required Enabled others to acquire the tools and support they need to perform well Created culture that encouraged others to meet mission needs, and lead them successfully on projects, programs, or task groups Inspired others to incorporate vision, strategic planning, and elements of quality management into their day-to-day activities Influenced others to ensure that activities, services, or products contribute to mission, goals, and objectives accomplishments Led and convinced groups or individuals in the achievement of project goals and objectives. I have not had experience motivating others. 12 Select the statement(s) that apply to your experience leading and motivating employees. Answer to this question is required I have inspired and guided employees and achieved positive, measurable results. I have instilled an awareness of organizational priorities to employees at all levels of a team I've led. I have recommended training to help employees to meet an organization's goals. I have recognized skills in others, maximized their use, and rewarded and recognized them for their accomplishments. I have provided coaching and career counseling. I have considered and responded appropriately to the needs of team members. None of the above 13 [53618] As a regular part of your job, have you had responsibility for developing recruitment plans/strategies to address hiring programs and diversity hiring initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill demonstrating external awareness (i.e. identifying and understanding economic, political, and social trends that affect the organizations) in conducting investigations: Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required I have developed relationships with members of internal/external groups, which have allowed me to adapt the work of a team I have supervised to meet modified goals, respond to new crime trends or new needs of a current investigation. I have developed relationships with members of internal/external groups, which have allowed me to adapt my work to meet modified goals, respond to new crime trends or new needs of a current investigation. I have completed coursework in Public Policy, Criminal Justice, Law or Public Administration, but have not researched/analyzed trends affecting public sector organizations. I have experience gathering information pertaining to the Federal Government but have not completed coursework in Public Policy, Law, Criminal Justice, or Public Administration. I do not possess the experience described above. 15 Choose the answer that best describes your ability to prepare written reports of investigative findings, presentations, and briefings in a clear, concise and well organized manner? Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have received law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensured compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am often consulted by other workers to lead and/or assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensured compliance with proper procedures. 16 [53397] Select all choices that best describe your ability to present factual information in a concise, logical, and objective manner. Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated experience in making presentations to or briefing operational level officials in Federal, State, or local agencies. I have demonstrated experience in writing memoranda, and other correspondence directed to departmental officials and State and/or Federal prosecutors. I have demonstrated experience in writing routine reports of investigation, action leads, and case fact memoranda. I have experience preparing significant case reports for supervisors and distribution throughout the organization. I have demonstrated experience making presentations to prosecuting attorneys. I have demonstrated experience in briefing management and supervisory personnel. I have experience addressing groups at public meetings or as an instructor in a formal course. I have demonstrated experience interviewing a variety of individuals concerning non-criminal matters including developing interoffice memoranda and reports of interviews. I have experience preparing and providing case progress reports to first line supervisors. None of the above. 17 Please select the one answer that best describes your experience in the preparation of investigative reports, briefings, and other documents to support investigative activities. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience preparing briefings, reports and summaries used to prepare for reports to Congress, GAO, and/or the Secretary of DOT. I have some experience preparing reports and summaries used to prepare for reports to Congress, GAO, and/or the Secretary of DOT. I have experience preparing reports of investigation and summaries. I do not have any experience in this area. 18 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of experience in communicating effectively, both orally and in writing.&nbsp;(Describe your experience in interviewing, interrogation, briefing, documenting investigative findings, and preparing investigative summaries and reports.) Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 19 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to identify rules, principles, or relationships that explain facts, data, or other information used in analyzing information to make correct inferences or accurate conclusions. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required I have routinely and repeatedly reviewed and analyzed large volumes of complex and/or inconclusive data or forensic intelligence; identified and reported key discrepancies and evidence-based conclusions which resulted in criminal prosecutions and/or civil or administrative adjudication. I have occasional experience reviewing and analyzing files, records, and other documents in varying formats and identifying discrepancies or linkages of a forensic nature to draw reasoned conclusions in support of mission-critical activities. I have some experience analyzing documents and identifying discrepancies or linkages, and using that information to draw reasoned conclusions, but have not achieved criminal prosecutions or civil or administrative adjudications. I have no experience performing the tasks above. 20 [13255] Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of knowledge of legal, government, and jurisprudence (i.e. knowledge of applicable Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders governing the conduct of criminal investigations). Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have working knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have limited knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have received training in the federal rules of criminal procedures, but have not conducted investigations. I do not possess the experience described above. 21 [53918] Select the one answer choice that best describes your level of knowledge with regard to the Inspector General (IG) Act of 1978 and the general and qualitative standards set forth in the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Investigations. Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge of the Inspector General Act of 1978 and CIGIE Quality Standards for Investigations and I have reviewed and referenced these standards as part of my daily work responsibilities. I am familiar with the IG Act and CIGIE Quality Standards for Investigations but have not had a need to consult these standards as part of my daily work responsibilities. I am not familiar with these standards nor do I have experience in working under these standards. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).