Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [52651] Do you have experience troubleshooting 4-20mA circuits? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [3485] Select the type(s) of hazardous materials Special Permits or Approvals for which you have experience making recommendations for approval or denial. Answer to this question is required Safety and security Regulatory precedence Risk mitigation Economic impact National Security Incident trends None of the above 4 [2528] Select the largest group size for which you have had experience communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. Answer to this question is required Small groups (2-5 people) Medium-sized groups (6-20 people) Large groups (20 or more people) Entire organization None of the above 5 [1034] Choose the statement that best characterize your ability to work with electrical equipment such as wiring motors, control equipment and communications equipment. Answer to this question is required Ability to install, maintain, and repair it with general supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair it, but only under close supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair it on my own, independently, without supervision. Ability to install, maintain, and repair independently, plus the ability to provide technical directions or training to lower-level workers on how to do the work properly. None of the above 6 [4689] Select the statement that best characterizes your ability to work with electrical equipment up to and including 13.2 KiloVolt (KV). Answer to this question is required I have the ability to install, maintain and repair electrical equipment up to 13.2 KV under close supervision. I have the ability to install, maintain and repair electrical equipment up to 13.2 KV with general supervision. I have the ability to install, maintain, and repair electrical equipment up to 13.2 KV, independently, without supervision. In addition to having the ability to install, maintain and repair electrical equipment up to 13.2 KV independently, I can provide technical directions and/or training to lower-level workers on how to do the work properly. None of the above 7 [1067] Select the option that best describes your electrical and mechanical background. Answer to this question is required I have little to no experience in either mechanical or electrical fields or related fields. I have experience in a mechanical or mechanical related field, as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with little to no supervision. I have experience in an electrical or electrical related field, as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with little to no supervision. I have experience in either mechanical or electrical fields or related fields as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with supervision. I have experience in both mechanical and electrical fields or related fields as shown on my resume, that will allow me to perform the duties of this position with little to no supervision. 8 [8951] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in troubleshooting to determine the nature and extent of repairs necessary, materials or parts needed. Answer to this question is required I have done little to no troubleshooting on the job. I have had study or training in troubleshooting, but have not applied it on the job. I have used my knowledge or training in troubleshooting, but I have been closely supervised. I have applied my knowledge and/or experience in troubleshooting on my own, with little to no immediate supervision. I commonly troubleshoot on the job with no supervision. I supervise or train others in troubleshooting. 9 [928] Please select the statement that best describes your working knowledge of electrical technical practices. Answer to this question is required Knowledge of the proper methods and sequences for laying out routing, placement, type, size, gauge, balance, load and continuity of electrical lines and circuits. Knowledge of the proper routing, placement and size of electrical lines and circuits. Possess some knowledge of routing, placement and size of electrical lines and circuits. None of the above 10 [4477] Choose the description that best describes your ability to read mechanical, technical and manufacturing blueprints. Answer to this question is required I have no experience with reading or interpreting mechanical blueprints. My ability is limited to the extent that assistance is required in reading and interpreting mechanical blueprints I have the ability to read and interpret blueprints including multiview and technical service prints. I have the ability to read and interpret most blueprints and specifications as identified above, but under closer supervision when working on any new prints. I have the ability to read and interpret the most complex blueprints, such as sectional, multiview and wire frame blueprints related to tools, dies, fixtures, prototype models or complete assemblies. 11 [1007] From the following list, please select the item(s) in which you have the ability to read and interpret circuit diagrams, electrical blueprints, schematics and identify components and symbols. Answer to this question is required Ability to use wiring diagrams Ability to follow simple circuit diagrams Ability to use schematics and block diagrams Ability to use assembly drawings showing how parts fit together Ability to use blueprints Ability to identify electrical components and symbols Ability to read and comprehend technical installation, maintenance and operation manuals. None of the above 12 [7112] Select the response that best describes your knowledge of ship dehumidification systems. Answer to this question is required I have designed, operated, and maintained ship dehumidification systems. I have operated and maintained ship dehumidification systems. I have operated ship dehumidification systems. I have observed the operation of ship dehumidification systems. I thoroughly understand the operation ship dehumidification systems. I have an engineering or science degree with a concentration in electricity. I am unfamiliar with ship dehumidification systems. 13 [2104] Select the statement that best characterizes your knowledge of and experience with Dehumidification theory and systems operation. Answer to this question is required I am able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems, but only under close supervision. I am able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems with general supervision. I am able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems on my own, independently, without supervision. In addition to being able to install, maintain, and repair Dehumidification systems, I provide technical direction and/or training to lower-level workers on the operation of and theory behind Dehumidification systems. None of the above 14 [1052] Select the response that best describes your ability to assemble, disassemble, and reassemble mechanical and electrical machinery equipment. Answer to this question is required I have experience assembling, disassembling, and reassembling mechanical and electrical machinery, with constant supervisory guidance. I am able to assemble, disassemble, and reassemble mechanical and electrical machinery equipment on my own, with general supervisory guidance. I am able to assemble, disassemble, and reassemble mechanical and electrical machinery equipment on my own, independently, without supervision. I train or supervise others on assembling, disassembling, and reassembling mechanical and electrical machinery equipment. None of the above 15 [1084] Choose the statement that best describes your experience in working with others to perform special assignments. Answer to this question is required I regularly work with others outside of my agency/company to compliment and supplement my work experience and responsibilities. I established relationships with others outside my direct office/company who work in similar areas to gain a constant source of resources. None of the above. 16 [11002] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions. Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, following lock-out tag-out procedures, and confined space work operations. I have had some instruction in general safety practices for working in inclement weather, from heights, or over water and/or ice, but have had little practical experience with lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. I have used proper lifting and bending techniques while working with a partner during inclement weather and have followed proper lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. I have worked as a member of a team in a industrial or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights and/or while working near water and/or ice, in all types of weather and have followed lock-out tag-out procedures and confined space work operations. 17 [1011] From the following list, please select the item(s) in which you have the knowledge and ability to install, maintain, and repair electrical equipment. Answer to this question is required Overhead power lines Underwater power cables High voltage cable splicing Installation of cable couplers Motors Control equipment Regulating equipment Generators Switchgear Electrical substations Transformers Wiring (power lines) None of the above 18 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 19 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 20 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 22 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 23 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 24 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 25 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 28 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 29 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 29.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 29.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 29.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).