Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications" and "Education" sections of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in community planning; or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. I possess a degree in a related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that does NOT include at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance however, I have had at least 1 year of work experience in community planning acquired under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. I possess a combination of education and experience including having courses equivalent to a major in one of the above disciplines, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the above disciplines of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education. None of the above 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. None of the above. 3 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 4 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Preparing the initial planning and documentation for a number of multi-million dollar renovation and new construction projects; (2) Providing significant and innovative recommendations and/or methods to accomplish cost-effective, high-quality design and construction activities related to professional planning, architectural, sustainability, and engineering disciplines; i.e., civil, mechanical, fire protection, safety and electrical; and (3) Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects. 5 Do you have experience planning construction projects in occupied buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience working on an historic campus? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which outcomes have you achieved when resolving problems? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency and/or productivity The development and implementation of a new policy A cost-savings Complying with codes while maintaining client goals Improved customer satisfaction None of the above Grade: 12 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications" and "Education" sections of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in community planning; or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. I possess a degree in a related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that does NOT include at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance however, I have had at least 1 year of work experience in community planning acquired under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. I possess a combination of education and experience including having courses equivalent to a major in one of the above disciplines, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the above disciplines of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education. None of the above 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 4 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Preparing the initial planning and documentation for a number of multi-million dollar renovation and new construction projects; (2) Leading broad based programs that have impact on agency planning initiatives; (3) Providing significant and innovative recommendations and/or methods to accomplish cost-effective, high-quality design and construction activities related to professional planning, architectural, sustainability, and engineering disciplines; i.e., civil, mechanical, fire protection, safety and electrical; and (4) Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects. 5 Select the response that best describes your experience developing or reviewing information and plans and making recommendations on complex planning problems related to a variety of land uses involving conflicting factors, economic growth and the social and cultural welfare involving local municipalities. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 6 Do&nbsp;you have master planning experience on a large complex of historically significant buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select all broad based program areas that have an impact on organization planning initiatives in which you have experience leading. Answer to this question is required Capital Improvements Program Master Planning Program Real Property Management Environmental Programs Facility Condition Assessment Program External Engagement Liaison None of the above Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications" and "Education" sections of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in community planning; or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. I possess a degree in a related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that does NOT include at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance however, I have had at least 1 year of work experience in community planning acquired under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. I possess a combination of education and experience including having courses equivalent to a major in one of the above disciplines, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the above disciplines of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education. None of the above 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 4 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Preparing the initial planning and documentation for a number of multi-million dollar renovation and new construction projects; (2) Leading broad based programs that have impact on agency planning initiatives; (3) Providing significant and innovative recommendations and/or methods to accomplish cost-effective, high-quality design and construction activities related to professional planning, architectural, sustainability, and engineering disciplines; i.e., civil, mechanical, fire protection, safety and electrical; (4) Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects; and (5)&nbsp;Developing Master Plans and/or advancing existing Master Plans for a large complex of buildings. 5 Have you facilitated charrettes with technical subject matter experts and clients to define project requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the response that best describes your experience developing or reviewing information and plans and making recommendations on complex planning problems related to a variety of land uses involving conflicting factors, economic growth and the social and cultural welfare involving local municipalities. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 7 Do&nbsp;you have master planning experience on a large complex of historically significant buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select all broad based program areas that have an impact on organization planning initiatives in which you have experience leading. Answer to this question is required Capital Improvements Program Master Planning Program Real Property Management Environmental Programs Facility Condition Assessment Program External Engagement Liaison None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Do you&nbsp;have experience incorporating sustainability strategies into planning documentation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select all of the following certifications you possess: Answer to this question is required I am a registered architect I am a member of the AIA I am a registered landscape architect I am a member of the ASLA I am a certified community planner from the APA I am a certified planner from the AICP I am a registered LEED accredited professional I have a professional engineer (PE) license I do not possess any of the registration or certifications above 3 Select all tasks you have completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project or program management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects or programs Established timelines and milestones for a project or programs Developed and or led agency- or firm-wide programs Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project or program progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects or programs Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals’ performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 4 From the list below, select the project planning activities you have performed? Answer to this question is required Producing construction project site analysis documentation such as layouts and preliminary design concepts. Developing economic analysis of alternatives to evaluate options for construction projects based on cost, risks, and benefits. Conducting feasibility studies and cost analyses for renovation, alteration, rehabilitation and/or construction of buildings. Developing initial parametric cost and timeline estimates for construction, renovation, and/or alteration projects. Providing leadership of construction project scope, schedule, and budget in the early development phases. Recommending strategies and solutions for facilities, space and/or land use. None of the above. 5 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 6 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval. Justified budgetary expenses. Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions. Completed a construction project within budget limitations. None of the above 7 Select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education in developing Scope of Work technical requirement documents. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 8 Do you have experience preparing construction data forms (e.g., DD Form 1391, AOC Form 1391, or other similar documents) for the purpose of documenting project scope, cost, requirements and justifications in support of funding requests for construction projects to Congress? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required I have written summaries or oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail for documentation purposes) I have written reports as part of completed projects I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products I have written master planning documents for a large client with multiple facilities and campuses I have written documents that are nationally recognized as being significant in their field None of the above 10 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 11 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have marketed safety programs using networking and constituency group processes effectively. None of the above. 12 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected Officials and their staff Local Agencies Federal Agencies External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.