Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 &nbsp; Do you possess a bachelor's degree in engineering from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) OR possess a bachelor's degree in architecture, or a related field, such as such as physics, chemistry, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 ECQ 1 - Leading Change: Please describe your experience bringing about strategic change, both within and outside the organization, to meet organizational goals; and establishing an organizational vision and implementing it in a continuously changing environment. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 ECQ 2 - Leading People: Please describe your experience leading people toward meeting the organization's vision, mission and goals; providing an inclusive workplace that fosters the development of others; facilitating cooperation and teamwork; and supporting constructive resolution of conflicts. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 ECQ 3 - Results Driven: Please describe your experience meeting organizational goals and customer expectations; and making decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems and calculating risks. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 ECQ 4 - Business Acumen: Please describe your experience managing human, financial and information resources strategically. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 ECQ 5 - Building Coalitions: Please describe your experience building coalitions internally and with other Federal agencies, State and local governments, nonprofit and private sector organizations, foreign governments or international organizations to achieve common goals. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required Please provide narrative responses below that describe your technical expertise in the following areas: 7 Project and Construction Management: Please describe your demonstrated broad knowledge of planning, design, historic preservation, engineering, energy and sustainability, project and construction management, and maintenance and operations. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Program Management: Please describe your significant and demonstrated experience formulating and executing facilities operations programs for complex buildings to include strategic and project planning, budget development, process improvement and organizational change.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.