Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to develop, evaluate, and implement training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for Continuity of Operations (COOP).** Experience in the development, evaluation, and implementation of training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for Continuity of Operations (COOP). Performed the following: 1) formulated and drafted a Continuity of Operations (COOP) plan, ensuring the format and content were current and accessible; 2) worked with internal groups to ensure maintenance of COOP plan; 3) worked with internal groups to test COOP plans and revise procedures for efficacy; 4) remained current on relevant federal, state, and local regulations and standards related to emergency management and COOP; 5) recommended sources and collaborated in the development of training sessions and materials to satisfy training requirements; 6) developed and evaluated emergency management exercise scenarios; and 7) wrote evaluations and notes on exercises and drills. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated experience in the development, evaluation, and implementation of training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for Continuity of Operations (COOP). In doing so, INDIVIDUALLY performed ALL of the above tasks. Demonstrated experience in the development, evaluation, and implementation of training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for Continuity of Operations (COOP). In doing so, INDIVIDUALLY or as PART OF A TEAM, performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks. Demonstrated experience in the development, evaluation, and implementation of training and technical concepts, policies, and procedures for Continuity of Operations (COOP). In doing so, INDIVIDUALLY or as PART OF A TEAM, performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to plan, organize, and manage a complex emergency preparedness program.** Identified work requirements, methods, and resources, required, and planned and coordinated actions necessary to accomplish goals of an emergency preparedness program. Answer to this question is required Accomplished agency or organization-wide strategic and operational emergency management goals through effective interaction with other organizations and integration or processes; delegated and managed multiple tasks; developed and coordinated long-range and emergency preparedness activities affecting multiple organizations; aligned resources across organizational lines. Developed plans and carried out emergency management functions for a division or unit, identifying and obtaining resources to accomplish operational objectives. Planned and organized work related to one aspect of an emergency preparedness program. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interact collaboratively with others.** Collaborated closely with an agency or organization's senior staff and other agency emergency preparedness program managers in resolving significant problems and issues. Answer to this question is required Worked closely with organization or agency-wide senior managers in building an effective emergency preparedness program; represented the agency on task forces and in meetings with senior level managers from other agencies. Collaborated with one or more agency or organization divisions to address emergency preparedness issues. Collaborated with staff in preparing technical reports on emergency preparedness. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, well organized, and understandable documents related to emergency preparedness. Examples include: 1) emergency preparedness plans (e.g., exercise plans, training plans), 2) emergency preparedness policies and procedures, 3) reports (e.g., status reports, and after actions), 4) advisories, 5) training materials, 6) performance evaluations, and 7) correspondence. Answer to this question is required Independently authored ALL of the above documents in support of an agency or organization-wide emergency preparedness program. Independently authored FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents, including 1) and 2), in support of an agency wide emergency preparedness program. Independently authored THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above documents, including 1) and 2), in support of an agency wide emergency preparedness program. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).