Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience providing leadership and supervision to a group of employees in a service industry such as a museum, visitor center, retail environment, or equivalent public venue with a strong emphasis on superior customer service. 2 Which customer situations have you addressed in a professional role? Answer to this question is required Argumentative or angry customers Customers who miss their reservation Customers who disregard safety precautions Customers who refuse to follow policies Customers who make derogatory comments to staff None of the above 3 Which actions have you performed to coordinate customer flow through a building or event location? Answer to this question is required Ushered groups of customers to designated areas Organized groups of customers in single file lines Prevented customers from accessing unauthorized areas Ensured entry/exit areas remained clear (e.g., asked customers to congregate in other locations) Led customers through established courses or routes Led customers through evacuation procedures in emergency situations Adjusted established routes within safety/security guidelines to meet visitors` needs and avoid unexpected safety hazards or maintenance issues None of the above 4 Which tasks have you performed to maintain working relationships with others? Answer to this question is required Set personal differences aside to provide assistance to others Recognized when others needed assistance and provided it without being asked Offered coverage to ensure others received a break Asked others for help when needed to ensure work quality was maintained Used positive body language to appear approachable when interacting with others (e.g., made eye contact, hands at sides instead of crossed or in pockets) None of the above 5 In which ways have you communicated with employees? Answer to this question is required Coached employees on job performance Explained performance expectations Led meeting discussions Trained employees on new procedures Described disciplinary actions being implemented Advised employees of policies None of the above 6 Do you have experience orally communicating information to employees that impacted daily operations and/or the way employees performed their work? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select the activities that describe your experience orally communicating with others. Answer to this question is required Provided multiple-step directions to complete a task Explained policies that adversely impacted an individual Presented educational information Prompted interaction from an audience during a presentation Explained complex theories or concepts in easily understood terms Tailored communications (e.g., content, style) to the audience`s interests and level of comprehension Elicited information from individuals who were reticent Convinced others to adopt a specific point of view Used props enhance the story Responded to requests for information None of the above 8 Which project management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Developed project goals and objectives. Developed project plan to achieve goals and objectives. Developed and managed project budget. Established project deliverables, schedule and milestones. Created stakeholder communications. Managed project execution, allocating and aligning resources, and ensuring effective project completion. None of the above. 9 Which project challenges/issues have you faced and overcome? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Managing multiple, simultaneous projects with overlapping deadlines. Changes in the availability of equipment and/or technology needed for the project. New/revised policies that were implemented in the middle of a project. Unexpected technology difficulties (e.g., the system did not function as planned). Budget shortfalls (e.g., funding was cut part way through the project). Performance problems (i.e., with contractors, internal staff). Time line requirements changed unexpectedly. None of the above 10 Do you have experience organizing information into a presentation that was personalized but still met content and timing requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Do you have experience altering standard operating procedures to meet unexpected changes or demands? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which operational problems do you have experience resolving? Answer to this question is required Customer accommodation or accessibility concerns Running behind schedule (e.g., interactions with customers take too long) Equipment malfunctions (e.g., computerized systems, stations) None of the above 13 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience solving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I have identified customer service problems and notified senior employees for resolution. I generated ideas and proposed solutions to customer service problems. I independently developed and implemented solutions to resolve customer service problems. I provided guidance to others on how to resolve customer service problems. None of the above. 14 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems? Answer to this question is required Identifying relevant and important information Synthesizing data from multiple sources Generating solution ideas Weighing alternative options Developing recommendations Making final decisions None of the above 15 Do you have experience supervising employees who were part of a collective bargaining unit? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which tasks have you performed to manage the performance of employees? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion and/or awards. Interviewed job applicants. Approved/denied leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training. Developed training. Addressed employee conduct issues. None of the above. 17 Which tasks have you performed to manage employee schedules? Answer to this question is required I created schedules. I adjusted schedules for employee absences. I requested increases in staffing. I prioritized employee assignments during busy periods. I assigned employees to posts or duties to ensure coverage. I identified gaps in employee coverage. I identified ways to increase employee efficiency. None of the above. 18 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who provide customer service. Answer to this question is required I have not supervised employees who perform customer service functions. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this on the job. In a team lead role, I provided instruction or assistance to employees about the proper way to complete customer service tasks. In a supervisory role, I assigned work to employees and provided instruction about customer service techniques, and evaluated performance. 19 Do you have experience implementing operational changes based on your interpretation of customer satisfaction or organizational performance data? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Which activities have you performed to supervise administrative operations in your organization? Answer to this question is required Acted as a liaison to other departments Volunteered for special projects Tracked resources or equipment used Ordered supplies when inventory was low Developed special event plans Directed/supervised operations during special events Adjusted operations due to unexpected events (e.g., inclement weather, building closures) Adjusted procedures to maximize operational efficiency None of the above 21 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience conducting staff meetings. Answer to this question is required I planned agendas, prioritized topics to be discussed and facilitated the meeting. I assisted in facilitating staff meetings by leading discussion on agenda items. I participated in staff meetings to provide suggestions, express ideas, and/or request information. I participated in staff meetings to stay up to date on information needed to perform my job. None of the above. 22 Select the activities you have performed to guide the day-to-day operations of an organization. Answer to this question is required Drafted and implemented new standard operating procedures Made revisions to existing procedures to improve operations Solicited input from staff on areas to improve operations Provided advice to staff on how to respond to unexpected operational disruptions Reassigned staff to ensure operational coverage None of the above 23 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Writing reports or findings regarding analysis reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Composing daily activity reports regarding complex issues. None of the above 24 Which documents and/or business processes have you written? Answer to this question is required Employee documents such as performance plans and appraisals. Program Evaluation Reports Presentations Memos Statements of work Standard operating procedures Summaries Process Improvement Plans Action Plans Policy Directives Recommendations on the use of data. Recommendations for operational changes. Call Center and/or Help Desk Scripts Announcements for the Public On-Line Material Printed Material None of the above. 25 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 25.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.