Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Do you&nbsp;possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising workers who store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical material handler work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 4 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 5 Which of the following tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Summarized work performed Completed disciplinary forms Completed absentee reports Developed work plans Researched equipment Created/updated work orders Ordered supplies Documented resolution of client concerns None of the above 6 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 7 Choose the statements that describes your experience operating forklifts. Answer to this question is required Maneuvered forklifts in small areas such as in warehouses and between outside buildings. Transported vehicles, lifting, lowering and tilting forks in an appropriate safe manner Applied leverage when moving and handling heavy equipment and furnishings. Loaded and unloaded, stacked and unstacked warehouses Moved crates, boxes, packages, pallets, or loose items. None of the above 8 Select the actions you have performed when receiving shipments. Answer to this question is required Visually inspected items for damage Counted items to verify quantity Checked shipping label for accurate delivery location Recorded transactions (e.g., receipt date, time) Puts bar codes, tags, and/or identification marks on items None of the above 9 Select the warehousing activities you have performed. Answer to this question is required Laid out storage space Established item locations Determined organization and arrangement of stock Identified high and low usage items according to organizational policies/procedures Developed space utilization plans None of the above 10 Do you have experience adjusting work schedules to accommodate last-minute priority requests for service? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Do you have experience transporting goods, materials and/or supplies throughout the AOC? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Select the specialty materials/items you have moved without causing damage. Answer to this question is required Antiques/historical artifacts (e.g., furniture, paintings) Construction material (e.g., tools, parts) Hazardous material (e.g., asbestos, mercury) High-valued items (e.g., precision instruments) None of the above 13 Do you have experience supervising and evaluating the work of employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with customers while moving materials or cleaning areas. Answer to this question is required I have resolved misunderstandings or disagreements about moving or cleaning procedures. I have explained moving or cleaning procedures. I have directed customers with questions to a senior employee. None of the above. 15 Which tasks have you performed in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issuing and receiving Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment Unload equipment Assemble items delivered in pieces None of the above 16 Which industrial trucks/equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Pallet jacks Hand trucks Flatbed trucks Table trucks Chair dollies None of the above 17 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience related to storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment. I have performed storage, delivery, and set up activities for furniture and equipment as an apprentice or under close supervision. I have independently stored, delivered, and set up furniture and equipment. I have led or instructed others on proper techniques to store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment. 18 Do you have experience lifting, carrying, and/or moving objects weighing up to 50 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes 18.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 19 Select the personal protective equipment (PPE) you have experience using. Answer to this question is required Full body suits Respirators Goggles Gloves Safety shoes None of the above 20 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Safety Data Sheets None of the above 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.