Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience coordinating the aligning of an organization`s primary mission with its planning, evaluation, budget and financial management and external affairs activities and priorities? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience preparing briefing notes, reports, or other written documents to communicate pertinent program issues, policies and recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience providing technical advice and guidance to managers, co-workers, headquarters staff and decision-makers on undefined issues and elements for programs critical to the agency`s mission? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Do you have experience recommending or developing new or improved methodologies or approaches for analyzing the effectiveness of legislative processes and/or operations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience applying legislation or legislative intent to an organization`s mission? Answer to this question is required Working knowledge of, or ability to, analyze and/or interpret federal legislation. Analyzed and prepared written or oral information about committee reports or proposed or enacted legislation for a unit. Directed a unit within a large agency responsible for interpreting or enacting legislation or legislative intent. Directed a unit or organization responsible for analyzing legislative activities and present interpretations and options to senior agency management. Directed a unit or organization responsible for analyzing legislative issues and present interpretations and options to senior agency management, then directing unit / organization responses. None of the above. 9 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience in overseeing, reviewing and evaluating policies and/or operations in order to ensure compliance with an organizations mission, strategic plans, goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 From the following list, please identify the secure document design technologies with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Document security features Secure document designs used by other document issuing authorities Forged, altered or counterfeit documents Forensic science Engineering / Electronics Radio frequency (RF) testing, shielding Optical Character Recognition (OCR) Bar code reading and scanning Biometric features Secure printing Book binding Card manufacturing Material science Document durability / archiving Document simulation / reproduction Other None of the above 11 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Government organizations General public Private industry Academia Professional organizations Technical experts Inter-agency Meetings None of the above 12 Which of the following best describes your experience in serving as the point of contact or liaison with other Bureaus, Department officials, the public and other entities with whom you worked cooperatively to organize and strategize new plans and initiatives? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Select the response(s) that reflect your experience working with persons representing diverse backgrounds and interests as a team member to accomplish work-related issues: Answer to this question is required I have experience collaborating with others to accomplish work-related activities. I have successfully worked with a variety of individuals, including customers, contractors, employees, and supervisors. I have interacted with groups and/or individuals of all levels, both within and outside the organization to accomplish goals. I have extensive training, education, and experience in team building skills, and successful application of the skills learned. I have experience in leadership within a social organization, civil group, or club where the goals are internal to the organization. I have experience as a member of a team that addresses projects that encompass the development of procedures and practices. I have experience in various team settings and situations where the activities of several people with diverse backgrounds are involved, preparation time is limited and the outcome is successful. I have experience as a member of a team charged with developing systems that encompass various processes, authorities, and responsibilities, or focuses on research and problem solving where the problems are of moderate complexity. None of the above. 14 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 15 Which of the following types of situations illustrate your experience negotiating effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required Monetary impact, such as outsourcing Policy changes Adding, dropping, or modifying programs Congressional mandates Contracts Employee relations Organizational realignment None of the above 16 What is the highest level for which you have made a decision? Answer to this question is required Organizational level Office/Regional level or equivalent Division level or equivalent Unit level or equivalent Sub-unit level or equivalent None of the above 17 From the following list, please identify all that you routinely perform: Answer to this question is required Facilitate and establish program deadlines and communicate to the staff needed information. Provide guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. Interact effectively to unforeseen events or delays and rearrange priorities and work assignments. None of the above. 18 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.