Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher. I am currently at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement because I am below the GS-02 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher. Within the past 52 weeks I have been at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-02. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Human Resource Specialist deals with people of various backgrounds, institutional, regional and central office staff. He/she must demonstrate effective oral communication skills, expressing technical information clearly and concisely. Contacts require the ability to meet and deal in an impartial manner. He/she must be skilled in interpersonal communication to conduct interviews, orientations, and seminars. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions regarding application procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding vacancy/training announcements; and/or I have vouchered applicants for employment; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews. I have completed a public speaking course; and/or I have responded to questions received about training records or training opportunities; and/or I have screened and forwarded telephone calls from different sources; and/or I have greeted visitors to the department and provided general information; and/or I have provided an update on the status of a project during a staff meeting. I have contacted agency headquarters for guidance on Human Resource policies and procedures; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews; and/or I have briefed management on personnel selections; and/or I have responded to administrative/technical questions from management; and/or I have answered questions on promotion procedures; and/or I have updated supervisors on the status of promotion actions. None of the above. 5 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to interpret and apply a wide variety of federal regulations from the Office of Personnel Management, agency specific policies, and other instructional/regulatory materials to effectively advise others. He/she must keep abreast of human resources related information to present to the workforce. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed procedures when responding to employee questions; and/or I have screened and routed internal mail according to standard operating procedures; and/or I have completed standard forms following policy/examples. I have provided information to management on special hiring programs; and/or I have ensured that all pre employment forms were filed and properly completed prior to enter on duty date; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding guidance from the Office of Personnel Management and/or agency personnel. I have provided employee with desk audit information; and/or I have determined employee’s eligibility for a competitive promotion; and/or I have assisted in preparing a detail-for-training opportunity announcements; and/or I have keyed various personnel actions. None of the above. 6 The Human Resource Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of personnel policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as personnel trends, research, and literature. This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations in such areas as position classification, staffing, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), performance evaluations and incentive awards, labor management relations, and disciplinary/adverse actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed award recommendation for accuracy; and/or I have responded to a routine question regarding application procedures; and/or I have coded and processed a personnel action; and/or I have responded to an inquiry about service computation dates for leave and retirement purposes. I have researched a website and/or existing policy; and/or I have reviewed files against existing office procedures for compliance; and/or I have successfully completed an introductory personnel program related training course. I have completed and submitted vacancy posting materials for vacant positions; and/or I have determined eligibility and suitability for employment; and/or I have maintained applicant files; and/or I have advised management and staff on technical personnel issues and concerns. None of the above. 7 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to communicate with others by writing in a clear and concise manner, while following established rules and guidelines. He/she will be required to write a variety of personnel related correspondence and documents . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared responses to unusual or unique personnel issues; and/or I have composed memorandum for supervisor’s signature; and/or I have prepared meeting summary form meeting minutes; and/or I have prepared a draft newsletter article; and/or I have created an e-mail to explain new policy to employees. I have prepared select and non-select letters to applicants; and/or I have prepared reminders for open seasons; and/or I have compiled meeting minutes into a report for all participants; and/or I have drafted a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming hiring event. I have written a status report on a department project; and/or I have prepared and routed inter-office correspondence; and/or I have prepared informational e-mails in draft form; and/or I have prepared routine responses to inquiries regarding training procedures. None of the above. 8 The Human Resource Specialist must possess the ability to plan and organize work in order to manage multiple responsibilities. He/she is responsible for ensuring tracking tools are maintained, files, and logs are organized and accurate to support the work managed by the Human Resource Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the coordination of new employee orientation training; and/or I have submitted personnel action for processing using existing protocols; and/or I have provided separating staff with exit survey or benefit information; and/or I have generated and reviewed payroll reports for supervisor; and/or I have analyzed organizational charts in comparison with staffing reports for annual updates. I have reviewed and finalized hiring certificates before expiration date; and/or I have maintained a tracking system for incoming/outgoing correspondence; and/or I have created personal “task/checklist” for projects in order to remember steps that must be completed; and/or I have maintained and updated a database from task completed by others. I have maintained an existing filing system; and/or I have made travel arrangements for the department; and/or I have reconciled credit card statement; and/or I have completed meeting minutes for review and approval; and/or I have conducted physical inventory of accountable property. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Human Resource Specialist deals with people of various backgrounds, institutional, regional and central office staff. He/she must demonstrate effective oral communication skills, expressing technical information clearly and concisely. Contacts require the ability to meet and deal in an impartial manner. He/she must be skilled in interpersonal communication to conduct interviews, orientations, and seminars. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted agency headquarters for guidance on Human Resource policies and procedures; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews; and/or I have briefed management on personnel selections; and/or I have responded to administrative/technical questions from management; and/or I have answered questions on promotion procedures; and/or I have updated supervisors on the status of promotion actions. I have answered questions regarding application procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding vacancy/training announcements; and/or I have vouchered applicants for employment; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews. I have conducted pre-employment interviews; and/or I have provided guidance to management on position classification, labor management relations, or leave policies; and/or I have responded to questions regarding an applicant qualifications for a position; and/or I have given an oral presentation to management on the results of a survey; and/or I have at job fairs, spoken to potential applicants about career opportunities. None of the above. 5 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to communicate with others by writing in a clear and concise manner, while following established rules and guidelines. He/she will be required to write a variety of personnel related correspondence and documents . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written position descriptions; and/or I have prepared justifications for above the minimum and/or recruitment bonus requests; and/or I have prepared memoranda or letters for supervisors or Executive Staff signature; and/or I have prepared e-mail messages to provide personnel information and to solicit information from others. I have prepared select and non-select letters to applicants; and/or I have prepared reminders for open seasons; and/or I have compiled meeting minutes into a report for all participants; and/or I have drafted a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming hiring event. I have prepared responses to unusual or unique personnel issues; and/or I have composed memorandum for supervisor’s signature; and/or I have prepared meeting summary form meeting minutes; and/or I have prepared a draft newsletter article; and/or I have created an e-mail to explain new policy to employees. None of the above. 6 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to interpret and apply a wide variety of federal regulations from the Office of Personnel Management, agency specific policies, and other instructional/regulatory materials to effectively advise others. He/she must keep abreast of human resources related information to present to the workforce. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided employee with desk audit information; and/or I have determined employee’s eligibility for a competitive promotion; and/or I have assisted in preparing a detail-for-training opportunity announcements; and/or I have keyed various personnel actions I have provided information to management on special hiring programs; and/or I have ensured that all pre-employment forms were filed and properly completed prior to enter on duty date; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding guidance from the Office of Personnel Management and/or agency personnel. I have provided information to management on performance program requirements; and/or I have gathered information for an applicant objection package; and/or I have resolved employee issues regarding benefits; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding Office of Personnel Management and/or agency personnel and regulations. None of the above. 7 The Human Resource Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of personnel policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as personnel trends, research, and literature. This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations in such areas as position classification, staffing, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), performance evaluations and incentive awards, labor management relations, and disciplinary/adverse actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed and submitted vacancy posting materials for vacant positions; and/or I have determined eligibility and suitability for employment; and/or I have maintained applicant files; and/or I have advised management and staff on technical personnel issues and concerns. I have requested and processed a certificate of eligible candidates; and/or I have prepared and processed merit promotion certificates; and/or I have determined applicant qualifications for a position; and/or I have audited promotion board files for adherence to human resource policy; and/or I have researched and identified resources to answer personnel questions; and/or I have responded to questions on employee benefits; and/or I have determined proper pay setting for new employees. I have reviewed award recommendation for accuracy; and/or I have responded to a routine question regarding application procedures; and/or I have coded and processed a personnel action; and/or I have responded to an inquiry about service computation dates for leave and retirement purposes. None of the above. 8 The Human Resource Specialist must possess the ability to plan and organize work in order to manage multiple responsibilities. He/she is responsible for ensuring tracking tools are maintained, files, and logs are organized and accurate to support the work managed by the Human Resource Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the coordination of new employee orientation training; and/or I have submitted personnel action for processing using existing protocols; and/or I have provided separating staff with exit survey or benefit information; and/or I have generated and reviewed payroll reports for supervisor; and/or I have analyzed organizational charts in comparison with staffing reports for annual updates. I have assisted in scheduling pre-employment interviews; and/or I have tracked pending personnel actions and requested update; and/or I have organized case materials in preparation of a labor relations hearing; and/or I have arranged sponsors/vendors for an employee benefit event. I have reviewed and finalized hiring certificates before expiration date; and/or I have maintained a tracking system for incoming/outgoing correspondence; and/or I have created personal “task/checklist” for projects in order to remember steps that must be completed; and/or I have maintained and updated a database from task completed by others. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).