Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have six months of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-3 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Nursing Assistant coordinates the workflow by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. He/she also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the medical/nursing unit. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made changes requested by staff and supervisor to accomplish day-to-day tasks; and/or I have reviewed work of lower-level subordinates and provided instruction in developing their skills; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects in crisis situations; and/or I have developed/monitored office procedures and file systems for the unit. I have gathered information from files for special projects; and/or I have processed time and attendance sheets; and/or I have maintained availability of medical equipment. I have ensured deadlines were met and often exceeded the deadline by days or hours depending on type; and/or I have developed and maintained a tracking system of nursing department expenditures; and/or I have trained fellow employees on routine daily procedures/methods. None of the above. 3 The Nursing Assistant must be familiar with a variety of medical functions and/or equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted physician with minor surgical procedures; and/or I have assisted physicians/nurses with exams or treatments; and/or I have applied external catheter; and/or I have assisted in application and use of safety restraints. I have performed routine oral suctioning; and/or I have assisted physician with routine splinting/casting; and/or I have secured specimen for laboratory analysis. I have obtained and logged in vital signs in a data base; and/or I have turned and positioned patients to prevent additional health concerns; and/or I have maintained and accounted for medical equipment and supplies. None of the above. 4 The Nursing Assistant must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with patients, other health care providers, and staff in the health care setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed nursing home or residential care center patients in activities of daily living; and/or I have requested clarification from a physician or nurse after receiving verbal orders/request regarding a nursing home or residential care center patient; and/or I have instructed family members on how to best assist with patient care and activities. I have cared for residents/inmates with dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, behavioral changes while recognizing and reporting to superiors any behaviors/actions which may have indicated a threat to security or the safety of others; and/or I have worked in situations where verbal abuse, combative behavior, assaults or other forms of aggression are present; and/or I have documented technical medical/security risk information in patient medical record. I have performed in-service programs by providing on-the-job training for other nursing assistants; and/or I have communicated with nursing supervisor/physician to clarify order written on patient’s chart; and/or I have participated in developing patient treatment plans; and/or I have served as preceptor or resource person to less experienced staff orienting them to equipment, procedures or documentation requirements. None of the above. 5 The Nursing Assistant must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patients' physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized and reported signs and symptoms indicating deterioration in patient condition such as slurred speech; and/or I have tested and reported decrease in grip; and/or I have advised medical staff of drooping of mouth/eyelid. I have recognized and reported unexpected changes in patient’s condition; and/or I have reported suspected changes in emotional status or level of consciousness; and/or I have recognized and reported changes in vital signs. I have recognized mental confusion; and/or I have detected memory deficit; and/or I have recognized and reported change in bowel/bladder functions. None of the above. Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Nursing Assistant coordinates the workflow by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. He/she also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the medical/nursing unit. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and managed scheduling and workflow for two or more chronic care clinics; and/or I have utilized organizational skills necessary to prioritize tasks; and/or I have insured timely completion of critical functions. I have ensured deadlines were met and often exceeded the deadline by days or hours depending on type; and/or I have developed and maintained a tracking system of nursing department expenditures; and/or I have trained fellow employees on routine daily procedures/methods. I have made changes requested by staff and supervisor to accomplish day-to-day tasks; and/or I have reviewed work of lower-level subordinates and provided instruction in developing their skills; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects in crisis situations; and/or I have developed/monitored office procedures and file systems for the unit. None of the above. 3 The Nursing Assistant must be familiar with a variety of medical functions and/or equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted physician with minor surgical procedures; and/or I have assisted physicians/nurses with exams or treatments; and/or I have applied external catheter; and/or I have assisted in application and use of safety restraints. I have performed routine oral suctioning; and/or I have assisted physician with routine splinting/casting; and/or I have secured specimen for laboratory analysis. I have utilized computers, EKG machines, BP/Pulse/O2 Sat monitors and other clinically appropriate patient care and evaluation tools; and/or I have tested and operated medical monitoring equipment to ensure operability (cardiac monitors, etc.); and/or I have assisted with inventorying and requisitioning supplies for Central Clinic. None of the above. 4 The Nursing Assistant must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with patients, other health care providers, and staff in the health care setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed in-service programs by providing on-the-job training for other nursing assistants; and/or I have communicated with nursing supervisor/physician to clarify order written on patient’s chart; and/or I have participated in developing patient treatment plans; and/or I have served as preceptor or resource person to less experienced staff assisting with patient care procedures to reduce risk or injury to staff or patient (repositioning patients in bed, transferring patients, performing bed baths, etc. I have diagnosed patients within a correctional facility with psychological disorders; and/or I have interacted with a wide variety of health care and other discipline workers to provide a wide array of patient care data and security threat information; and/or I have prioritized completion of duties delegated from supervisors based on patient needs or condition; and/or I have provided clear and concise report of changes in patient condition to appropriate staff; and/or I have explained patient care procedures to patients prior to beginning (e.g. toileting, transferring, repositioning, etc. I have cared for residents/inmates with dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, behavioral changes while recognizing and reporting to superiors any behaviors/actions which may have indicated a threat to security or the safety of others; and/or I have worked in situations where verbal abuse, combative behavior, assaults or other forms of aggression are present; and/or I have documented technical medical/ security risk information in patient medical record. None of the above. 5 The Nursing Assistant must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patients' physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized and reported unexpected changes in patient’s condition; and/or I have reported suspected changes in emotional status or level of consciousness; and/or I have recognized and reported changes in vital signs. I have prioritized and reported clinically pertinent information to appropriate clinicians; and/or I have assessed and documented changes in patient’s physical condition; and/or I have recognized changes in mentation; and/or I have observed sudden decrease in activity level. I have recognized and reported signs and symptoms indicating deterioration in patient condition such as slurred speech; and/or I have tested and reported decrease in grip; and/or I have advised medical staff of drooping of mouth/eyelid. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).