Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Residential Reentry Managers (RRM) communicate with Case Managers, Unit Managers, and other correctional staff to ensure effective placement of inmates. RRMs must also communicate with people and organizations outside of the agency, which have a professional interest in correctional work, including federal, state, and local criminal justice systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed Executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have made a presentation to U.S. district Court judges pertaining to the community corrections initiatives; and/or I have served as the organization's public relations/information specialist; and/or I have given a speech regarding community based programs for offenders at a civic organization; and/or I have provided recommendations to the senior official and upper management as part of an after-action review committee. I have served on a task force with Executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation for/to co-workers and peers. I have provided guidance and training on changes and operational requirements to contract residential staff; and/or I have made public appearances to represent the agency during the contracting process; and/or I have interacted with state and local authorities regarding inquiries from their constituents or other informational needs; and/or I have served as the organization's Public Relations/Information Officer resolving issues; and/or I have given a speech at a civic or community activity as a representative of the agency. I have answered inquiries from offenders, families, attorneys, private organizations, and the news media; and/or I have delivered a speech at a Special Emphasis Program meeting or conference; and/or I have interviewed staff and inmates while investigating disciplinary incidents. None of the above. 5 Residential Reentry Managers supervise a variety of positions, which may include: Residential Reentry Specialists, Correctional Treatment Specialists, Contract Oversight Specialists and clerical/administrative support positions. They provide overall guidance, evaluates performance and assists in determining training for career development. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union resident/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have directed or coordinated an organization's financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems. I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems. I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. None of the above. 6 In order to direct all decisions made concerning inmates and perform necessary administrative functions, Residential Reentry Managers must be able to apply policies and guidelines, particularly with regard to case management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as an information resource for inquiries received from offenders; and/or I have provided policy guidance to staff; and/or I have assisted staff in interpreting policies; and/or I have drafted legal correspondence; and/or I have prepared responses to administrative remedies. I have managed caseloads; and/or I have provided guidance and training on changes and operational requirements to contract residential staff; and/or I have requested modifications to contract requirements; and/or I have developed programs for inmates; and/or I have participated in the custody classification process; and/or I have reviewed sentencing statutes in preparation of computations. I have conducted management oversight review of Residential Management Branch offices to ensure compliance with national policy; and/or I have written a statement of works to obtain contract services to address new Residential Management Branch initiatives; and/or I have ensured case management services was provided for offenders in their community as they enter and are released from the custody of the Attorney General; and/or I have formulated/provided long-range budget projections; and/or I have planned, developed, coordinated and executed annual budget. None of the above. 7 Residential Reentry Managers corresponds with Federal Bureau of Prisons staff staff, as well, as with other agencies. Some of the documents they write include reports, letters to high-ranking officials, lesson plans for training, and internal memoranda. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the preparation of strategic plans; and/or I have developed training plans for staff; and/or I have developed lesson plans for Introduction to Correctional Techniques (Phase I), and Annual Training or equivalent annual training. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/ subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have assisted others in preparing a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a Lead in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have developed strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. I have written judicial letters; and/or I have written an Investigative Report; and/or I have assisted others in developing strategic plans; and/or I have prepared congressional reports; and/or I have prepared After-Action reports. None of the above. 8 Residential Reentry Managers implement policies, plans, and programs which promote the effective management of residential reentry management facilities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented national policies for Residential Management Branch and contract confinement/detention residential and non-residential services; and/or I have analyzed information and recommended increased security at contract facilities; and/or I have served on a task force which analyzed problems with inmate management, particularly in a contract facility, and recommended appropriate disciplinary procedures. I have compiled and analyzed different and unique inmate data; and/or I have used key indicators to respond to inquiries; and/or I have prepared responses to inmate grievances based on the analysis of all investigative information, trends, and data collected. I have collected information and made recommendation to increase services provided to staff or inmates; and/or I have reviewed policy and made changes to policy management assessment; and/or I have submitted policy that was implemented on a national level; and/or I have participated in a work group that addressed national policy; and/or I have assisted in implementing a pilot program with new program initiatives; and/or I have participated in strategic planning (e.g., key indicators); and/or I have participated in management assessment. I have conducted or participated in a research project which involved the collection of evidence in the presentation and suggestion for future research; and/or I have evaluated inmate programs; and/or I have formulated and submitted an annual budget; and/or I have made recommendations for staffing levels; and/or I have developed work plans for the successful implementation of staff program goals; and/or I have analyzed staff or contractor's performance and made recommendations for training; and/or as a team member, I have participated in a program review or external audit. None of the above. 9 Residential Reentry Managers must have extensive and specialized knowledge regarding Residential Reentry Management policies, procedures, and practices throughout the Federal Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a work group for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have participated in streamlining initiatives; and/or I have provided guidance to federal agencies, such as Government Accounting Office, U.S. Marshals, and Department of Justice regarding proposed regulations; and/or I have performed transactions related to the designation of inmates to appropriate facilities; and/or I have participated in an evaluation panel of technical proposals for the award of a residential reentry management center contract; and/or I have developed a statement of work. I have served as a technical representative for a contracting officer; and/or I have developed institution supplements; and/or I have provided training to local staff (i.e., Annual Training/Accountable Property Officers' training); and/or I have participated in regional conferences and staff assistance visits; and/or I have prepared a request for contract action; and/or I have prepared financial plans; and/or I have initiated case management procedures for the victim witness program; and/or I have participated in mentoring activities. I have independently resolved problems or conflicts; and/or I have consulted with the supervisor when issues that have extensive or far-reaching policy implications arose at the Residential Reentry Mangers level; and/or I have provided sound correctional management during full and interim monitoring of assigned Residential Reentry Centers (RRC's). I have performed duties as the assigned Contract Oversight Technical Representative (COTR); and/or I have reviewed work applications that impacted special projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).