Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 GS-9 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B or J.D., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 6 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best reflects your experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues. I have education or training researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently researched and resolved complex visa and immigration issues as a regular part of the job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 9 Please select the response that BEST describes your qualifications with correspondence. Answer to this question is required Type in final from draft, ensuring documents are grammatically correct and correspondence is complete. Draft responses to routine requests for information. Review all outgoing correspondence for clarity, grammar, spelling, and conformance with policy and procedures. Draft responses to routine or administrative inquiries. Review final correspondence prepared by others to ensure conformance with policy and procedures. Write non-routine communications or reports that are disseminated outside assigned work area. Create form letters to handle recurring inquiries on same subject. Edit correspondence prepared for supervisor's signature to clarify language or correct grammatical errors. Communicate in writing to all levels of an organization on non-routine matters. Ensure final correspondence has all necessary clearances, is signed, all attachments and enclosures are included and package is forwarded. Instruct subordinate offices on correspondence policy and procedures. Review correspondence ensuring documents are grammatically correct, complete, and conforms with standards and procedures. 10 Which of the following BEST reflects your level of education and/or experience entering, recording, storing, and maintaining information? Answer to this question is required I have no education or training related to data entry / record keeping activities. I have education or training in performing data entry / record keeping activities, but have not yet performed these activities on the job. I have performed data entry / record keeping activities on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed data entry / record keeping activities on the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at data entry / record keeping on the job. I have trained others in these activities and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa, passport and/or immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa, passport and/or immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa, passport and/or immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa, passport and/or immigrations issues or have published on these subjects. 12 Which of the following do you have a working knowledge of? Answer to this question is required Section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). The J-1 Visa Exchange Visitor Skills List. The J-1 visa waiver regulations. None of the above. 13 From the list below, select the activities that you have performed that demonstrate your knowledge of administrative laws, rules, regulations, policies, and/or procedures: Answer to this question is required Made travel arrangements. Prepared travel orders. Applied security procedures / protocols (e.g., storage of classified information, use of classified systems or equipment). Developed or implemented evacuation policies, procedures and/or guidelines. Developed or implemented emergency preparedness guidelines. None of the above. 14 Please indicate the following types of situations where you have interviewed someone: Answer to this question is required To determine eligibility. Where they were reluctant to provide information. Where there was a potential for fraud. Where relevant facts must be discerned from non-relevant facts. Where the information is provided through an intermediary. Where the other party doesn't understand the need for the required information. Where the other party provides information that requires follow-up information from other sources. None of the above. 15 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the Above Apply. 16 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 17 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience resolving conflicts? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicts. I have experience resolving conflicts that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience resolving conflicts that require analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience resolving conflicts that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have training in conflict resolution, but I have not applied this knowledge in a work environment. 18 I have demonstrated experience with methods for preventing and detecting fraud including modern detection techniques and equipment. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience (as described above) that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 6 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best reflects your experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues. I have education or training researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently researched and resolved complex visa and immigration issues as a regular part of the job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 9 Please select the response that BEST describes your qualifications with correspondence. Answer to this question is required Type in final from draft, ensuring documents are grammatically correct and correspondence is complete. Draft responses to routine requests for information. Review all outgoing correspondence for clarity, grammar, spelling, and conformance with policy and procedures. Draft responses to routine or administrative inquiries. Review final correspondence prepared by others to ensure conformance with policy and procedures. Write non-routine communications or reports that are disseminated outside assigned work area. Create form letters to handle recurring inquiries on same subject. Edit correspondence prepared for supervisor's signature to clarify language or correct grammatical errors. Communicate in writing to all levels of an organization on non-routine matters. Ensure final correspondence has all necessary clearances, is signed, all attachments and enclosures are included and package is forwarded. Instruct subordinate offices on correspondence policy and procedures. Review correspondence ensuring documents are grammatically correct, complete, and conforms with standards and procedures. 10 Which of the following BEST reflects your level of education and/or experience entering, recording, storing, and maintaining information? Answer to this question is required I have no education or training related to data entry / record keeping activities. I have education or training in performing data entry / record keeping activities, but have not yet performed these activities on the job. I have performed data entry / record keeping activities on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed data entry / record keeping activities on the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at data entry / record keeping on the job. I have trained others in these activities and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 Which of the following Section 212(e) waivers of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) do you have knowledge of and/or adjudicated? Answer to this question is required No objection statement application from a J-1 visa exchange visitor home country government. Exceptional hardship to the exchange visitor's U.S. citizen or permanent resident spouse or child submitted by the Department of Homeland Security on behalf of the J-1 visa exchange visitor participant. State Depatment of Health request on behalf of a J-1 visa foreign medical graduate. Fear of persecution based on the J-1 visa exchange visitor's race, religion or political opinion. Interested U.S. Government Agency request from a U.S. Federal Government Agency on behalf of a J-1 visa exchange visitor participant. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa, passport and/or immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa, passport and/or immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa, passport and/or immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa, passport and/or immigrations issues or have published on these subjects. 13 Which of the following do you have a working knowledge of? Answer to this question is required Section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). The J-1 Visa Exchange Visitor Skills List. The J-1 visa waiver regulations. None of the above. 14 From the list below, select the activities that you have performed that demonstrate your knowledge of administrative laws, rules, regulations, policies, and/or procedures: Answer to this question is required Made travel arrangements. Prepared travel orders. Applied security procedures / protocols (e.g., storage of classified information, use of classified systems or equipment). Developed or implemented evacuation policies, procedures and/or guidelines. Developed or implemented emergency preparedness guidelines. None of the above. 15 Please indicate the following types of situations where you have interviewed someone: Answer to this question is required To determine eligibility. Where they were reluctant to provide information. Where there was a potential for fraud. Where relevant facts must be discerned from non-relevant facts. Where the information is provided through an intermediary. Where the other party doesn't understand the need for the required information. Where the other party provides information that requires follow-up information from other sources. None of the above. 16 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the Above Apply. 17 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 18 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience resolving conflicts? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving conflicts. I have experience resolving conflicts that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience resolving conflicts that require analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience resolving conflicts that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have training in conflict resolution, but I have not applied this knowledge in a work environment. 19 I have demonstrated experience with methods for preventing and detecting fraud including modern detection techniques and equipment. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.