Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Neuropsychologist must be able to conduct interviews, administer and interpret neuropsychological tests, and other psychological tests, and make inferences in order to effectively evaluate patient behavior and provide a psychological diagnosis. They also must consult with staff regarding the management of incarcerated adults. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered the recent version of the Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Test Battery along with the recent versions of additional psychological assessments (i.e., Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Millon Multiaxial Inventory, Personality Assessment Inventory, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Wide Range Achievement Test, Psychopathy Checklist, Beck Depression Inventory) to patients in a hospital or outpatient setting and prepared a report which accurately interpreted and integrated the administered test battery. I have conducted psychological assessments with an emphasis in neuropsychological deficits; and/or I have completed an intensive internship rotation in neuropsychological assessment; and/or I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments with an emphasis in neuropsychological deficits (i.e., objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology, or vocational assessment); and/or I have participated in a research project that included neuropsychological assessments; and/or I have scored neuropsychological tests and interpreted the results. I have administered the recent version of the Halstead-Reitan Neuropsychological Test Battery to patients in a hospital or outpatient setting and prepared a report which accurately interpreted and integrated all administered tests; and/or I have independently screened patients for neuropsychological impairment utilizing the recent version of the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) or other similar test and prepared a report which accurately interpreted and integrated all administered tests. I have independently screened patients for neuropsychological impairment utilizing the recent version of the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status in combination with the recent versions of other psychological assessments (i.e., Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Millon Multiaxial Inventory, Personality Assessment Inventory, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Wide Range Achievement Test, Psychopathy Checklist, Beck Depression Inventory) and prepared a report which accurately interpreted and integrated the administered test battery. I have independently administered or provided supervision on a battery of the recent versions of neuropsychological tests (i.e., Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Wechsler Memory Scale, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Grooved Pegboard Test, Wide Range Achievement Test, Stroop Color-Word Test, Boston Naming Test, Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Rey Complex Figure Test, Wechsler Test of Adult Reading, Benton Judgement of Line Orientation Test, California Verbal Learning Test, Auditory Verbal Learning Test), along with other psychological assessments (i.e., Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Millon Multiaxial Inventory, Personality Assessment Inventory, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Wide Range Achievement Test, Psychopathy Checklist, Beck Depression Inventory) to assess for neuropsychological deficits and prepared a report which accurately interpreted and integrated the administered test battery. I have independently administered a battery of the recent versions of neuropsychological tests (i.e., Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Wechsler Memory Scale, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Grooved Pegboard Test, Wide Range Achievement Test, Stroop Color-Word Test, Boston Naming Test, Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Rey Complex Figure Test, Wechsler Test Adult Reading, Benton Judgement of Line Orientation Test, California Verbal Learning Test, Auditory Verbal Learning Test) to assess for neuropsychological deficits and prepared a report which accurately interpreted and integrated all administered tests. None of the above. 6 The Neuropsychologist must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substances use disorders, and personality disorders. In addition, he/she must be knowledgeable about therapeutic interventions to address and/or remediate cognitive deficits.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented cognitive-behavioral interventions for participants in a residential drug abuse program; and/or I have recommended, implemented or provided oversight on behavioral interventions to address disruptive behavior by an adult in custody in a restrictive housing unit; and/or I have implemented or provided oversight on a clinical case management model for patients with psychotic-related disorders to enhance medication compliance; and/or I have implemented or provided oversight on a cognitive-behavioral treatment protocol for adults in custody with anger management issues. I have made treatment recommendations for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions (i.e., behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR), biofeedback, impulse control or relaxation); and/or I have received training in at least two different treatment interventions (i.e., behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy, or biofeedback); and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have recommended and implemented treatment interventions to address self-directed violence in hospitalized patients; and/or I have participated in group counseling for coping with psychotic disorders; and/or I have provided cognitive-behavioral therapy for depression in an outpatient setting; and/or I have implemented behavioral interventions for anxiety disordered patients in an outpatient setting. None of the above. 7 The Neuropsychologist must have knowledge of personality theory, personality disorders, and psychopathology to understand incarcerated adult behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of their duties is counseling incarcerated adults individually and in a group setting. Must have working knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique (i.e., behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback); and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. I have utilized behavioral techniques, conducted or oversaw therapy for patients in a state hospital; and/or I have utilized cognitive-behavioral techniques while conducting individual therapy sessions for incarcerated adults; and/or I have utilized cognitive techniques during group therapy sessions with incarcerated adults; and/or I have facilitated a skills training group for patients with schizophrenia. I have conducted cognitive-behavioral therapy in an outpatient setting; and/or I have conducted group psychotherapy for adults in a halfway house; and/or I have utilized behavioral techniques while assisting with the management of disruptive adults in custody; and/or I have completed a rotation in individual or group psychotherapy with an emphasis on cognitive-behavioral therapy. None of the above. 8 The Neuropsychologist at this grade level is responsible for providing expertise in neuropsychology, primarily in the areas of neuropsychological assessment, diagnosis and treatment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a neuropsychological evaluator for a court system; and/or I have provided neuropsychological screening for new admissions to an inpatient treatment unit; and/or I have served as a member of the treatment team, in the role of mental health practitioner, on a unit for cognitively impaired patients. I have completed at least one year of training under a neuropsychologist in a practicum or internship setting; and/or I have conducted a research project in neuropsychology; and/or I have worked in a setting that treated mentally ill adults and provided neuropsychological rehabilitation; and/or I have used or assisted in administering neuropsychological intervention techniques. I have served as a neuropsychologist in a correctional setting; and/or I have served as a neuropsychologist in an inpatient setting; and/or I have served as a neuropsychologist in an outpatient clinic; and/or I have provided supervision of interns in a neuropsychology rotation; and/or I have provided court testimony related to neuropsychological assessments. None of the above. 9 The Neuropsychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, such as conflict resolution and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have averted a suicide threat by counseling a patient who had demonstrated self-directed violence; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have responded to a medical emergency and directed others; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have ended an altercation between two incarcerated adults; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).