Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 I have at least one year of experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-12 level in the federal service, performing staffing and placement functions under delegated examining and merit promotion procedures.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 2 Do you have experience advising at least ten (10) different hiring managers in a federal agency regarding Competitive Service recruitment options and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience advising at least ten (10) different hiring managers in a federal agency regarding Competitive Service candidate rating and ranking business rules? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience advising at least ten (10) different hiring managers in a federal agency regarding position classification rules? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the statement that best describes your level of experience with reviewing staff's recruiting cases and actions for completeness and accuracy prior to posting or final selection. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Do you have experience recruiting and hiring in a federal agency for at least 20 positions in the Excepted Service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select the statement that best describes your level of experience with using the guidance in OPM's Guide to Processing Personnel Actions to code/prepare and/or quality review of a variety of personnel actions. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 I have audited at least 25 staffing case files for documentation for and compliance with delegated examining rules. Answer to this question is required True False 9 I have audited at least 25 staffing case files for documentation for and compliance with merit promotion rules. Answer to this question is required True False 10 Which of the following systems have you used at least daily, over the course of a year&rsquo;s time: Answer to this question is required PeopleSoft National Finance Center Hiring Management/QuickHire/Monster QuickPost PERMIS USA Staffing Avue Other HR systems not mentioned here None of the above 11 Describe your level of experience communicating with, and assisting, high ranking government and corporate executives, where demonstrating appropriate behavior and diplomacy are essential to maintaining your organization's good public reputation. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Select the statement that best describes your level of experience with providing advice, assistance, and review on requests for highest previous rate; above the minimum pay setting; recruitment, retention, and relocation incentives; special pay; service credit for leave and other compensation and retention flexibilities. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Select the statement that best describes your level of experience with responding to questions orally and in writing from applicants and others who may challenge or question the hiring process, which may include the status of the application, qualifications, and troubleshooting technical difficulties with the application process. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience advising job seekers on application procedures. If more than one is accurate, choose the statement closest to the top of the list that is still accurate. Answer to this question is required I have advised ten (10) or more job seekers how to apply for Federal jobs. I have advised ten (10) or more job seekers how to apply for non-Federal jobs. I have advised between one (1) and nine (9) job seekers how to apply for jobs. I have not advised employees on how to apply for jobs. 15 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience advising employees on the employment benefits available to them, either during or following their careers. If more than one is accurate, choose the statement closest to the top of the list that is still accurate. Answer to this question is required I have advised ten (10) or more Federal employees on the benefits available to them. I have advised ten (10) or more non-Federal employees on the benefits available to them. I have advised between one (1) and nine (9) employees on the benefits available to them. I have not advised employees on benefits available to them. 16 Do you have experience in analyzing and planning for anticipated changes in HR requirements as it relates to recruitment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 I have assessed the feasibility of a new or revised policy as it relates to relates to recruitment. Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 I have experience analyzing HR automation efforts. Answer to this question is required True False 19 Choose the statement that best matches your experience with responding to inquiries and/or complaints in writing on staffing, recruitment &amp; placement or classification functions or issues. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 20 Choose the statement that best matches your experience with responding to inquiries and/or complaints orally on staffing, recruitment &amp; placement or classification functions or issues. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 21 Choose the statement that best matches your experience with Interact with hiring officials at various levels within the organization to ensure common goals are achieved. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 22 Do you currently possess a delegated examining certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.