Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Sports Specialist must possess the ability to deal effectively with individuals of differing backgrounds, race, religions, sexes, cultures, and behavioral patterns.&nbsp;The Sports Specialist typically interacts with inmates, co-workers, institution officials, contractors, manufacturers, entertainers, guests, community officials, and civic organizations to assist in the operation of recreation/wellness/leisure programs for incarcerated individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have repeated or relayed instructions from the coach to participants who missed or misunderstood instructions; and/or I have responded to basic participant questions about the activity; and/or I have called out activity cues or timing reminders as directed by the coach/facilitator; and/or I have welcomed new participants and provided a simple explanation of the day’s activities. I have explained and assigned activity schedules to participants and coaches during planned meetings; and/or I have communicated league/team requirements and expectations to participants; and/or I have communicated proposed recreational program needs to supervisor, which resulted in additional equipment being purchased or programs being implemented; and/or I have performed individual/group fitness counseling sessions and recommended program referrals. I have assisted in coaching a sports team; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions that encouraged increased participation; and/or I have helped facilitate a training session on recreation/leisure program procedures by communicating own ideas for programs. None of the above. 5 The Sports Specialist must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;In addition, the Sports Specialist must be cognizant of the intended audience and tailor written communication accordingly.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted internal memorandums; and/or I have maintained written activity logs to document participation and daily program hours; and/or I have provided program participation information to a supervisor for reporting purposes; and/or I have recorded game results and maintained scorekeeping documentation. I have written articles for publication in an internal newsletter (i.e., league standings/game results); and/or I have prepared reports and/or correspondence for supervisor approval and signature; and/or I have assisted in preparing a proposal to update current policy based on new developments; and/or I have assisted in preparing program plans at local recreation centers and health clubs; and/or I have prepared activity flyers and schedules announcing dates and times of upcoming events. I have prepared work status reports for supervisor review; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted correspondence; and/or I have assisted with routine, recurring email responses to inquiries. None of the above. 6 The Sports Specialist is responsible for developing recreation programs, planning hours of operation, creating activity schedules, and coordinating the number of participants, volunteers, and officials. To effectively develop program rules and expectations, he/she must possess a thorough knowledge of the rules, regulations, and governing policies of recreation, sports management, wellness, and leisure programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have helped set up program materials or sports equipment according to instructions from a supervisor; and/or I have monitored a station or activity during a fitness or recreation circuit, ensuring participants followed instructions; and/or I have posted or announced changes to the schedule during the event when instructed to do so. I have assisted in scheduling arts and crafts activities in an assisted living facility; and/or I have assisted a supervisor in coordinating a sports league; and/or I have as a member of a group, coordinated an end-of-season party for players of an organized sports team. I have monitored day-to-day operations at a recreational facility; and/or I have assisted in umpiring/officiating team sporting events; and/or I have coached in a sports league or worked at a health club. None of the above. 7 The Sports Specialist must understand current philosophies and guidelines regarding recreation, wellness, and leisure activities. To successfully fulfill the requirements of this position, he/she must possess the ability to perform multiple tasks simultaneously and demonstrate effective planning and organizational skills.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized established tracking sheets or methods for participant participation/completion; and/or I have successfully met deadlines established by a supervisor for assignments/activities; and/or I have assisted a supervisor with inventories of equipment and supplies. I have scheduled and coordinated hours of operation and recreation programs for a gymnasium; and/or I have assisted in the organization and operation of unrelated wellness/fitness/leisure programs; and/or I have utilized an existing database to complete/track assignments; and/or I have ensured internal deadlines were met timely; and/or I have monitored supply usage and informed supervisor of restocking needs; and/or I have maintained program-related records and files. I have supervised unstructured large recreational activities with others (i.e., open gym, playground); and/or I have supervised small groups of participants independently; and/or I have conducted inventories of equipment and supplies. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Sports Specialist must possess the ability to deal effectively with individuals of differing backgrounds, race, religions, sexes, cultures, and behavioral patterns.&nbsp;The Sports Specialist typically interacts with inmates, co-workers, institution officials, contractors, manufacturers, entertainers, guests, community officials, and civic organizations to assist in the operation of recreation/wellness/leisure programs for incarcerated individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in coaching a sports team; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions that encouraged increased participation; and/or I have helped facilitate a training session on recreation/leisure program procedures by communicating own ideas for programs. I have under strict time constraints, effectively communicated and arranged a recreational program for a varying group of participants in a manner which ensured high participation levels; and/or I have successfully resolved issues encountered while assigning uncooperative individuals to programs, teams, or groups; and/or I have coordinated efforts with a community-based sporting team and organized a tournament and playoff; and/or I have developed, implemented and communicated with others tournament rules and game schedules; and/or I have presented/instructed fitness/health seminar or training to individuals in the fitness/health field. I have explained and assigned activity schedules to participants and coaches during planned meetings; and/or I have communicated league/team requirements and expectations to participants; and/or I have communicated proposed recreational program needs to supervisor, which resulted in additional equipment being purchased or programs being implemented; and/or I have performed individual/group fitness counseling sessions and recommended program referrals. None of the above. 5 The Sports Specialist must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. In addition, the Sports Specialist must be cognizant of the intended audience and tailor written communication accordingly.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted internal memorandums; and/or I have maintained written activity logs to document participation and daily program hours; and/or I have provided program participation information to a supervisor for reporting purposes; and/or I have recorded game results and maintained scorekeeping documentation. I have developed a curriculum and lesson plan for a new wellness plan initiative; and/or I have prepared a proposal that incorporated changes or new developments in recreational/wellness/leisure programming; and/or I have prepared recommendations for corrective actions in response to recreation-related deficiencies identified during an audit; and/or I have prepared individual/group program plans as a personal health trainer; and/or I have prepared multiple monthly/seasonal sporting league schedules. I have written articles for publication in an internal newsletter (i.e., league standings/game results); and/or I have prepared reports and/or correspondence for supervisor approval and signature; and/or I have assisted in preparing a proposal to update current policy based on new developments; and/or I have assisted in preparing program plans at local recreation centers and health clubs; and/or I have prepared activity flyers and schedules announcing dates and times of upcoming events. None of the above. 6 The Sports Specialist is responsible for developing recreation programs, planning hours of operation, creating activity schedules, and coordinating the number of participants, volunteers, and officials. To effectively develop program rules and expectations, he/she must possess a thorough knowledge of the rules, regulations, and governing policies of recreation, sports management, wellness, and leisure programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed sports programs/leagues involving scheduling, drafting, and coordinating a large group of participants; and/or I have maintained an accredited certification as a personal trainer or athletic director; and/or I have developed and implemented guidelines for various team sports; and/or I have directed a regional or national recreational event; and/or I have created a new sports activity/program or modified an existing one to appropriately address the needs of the inmate population. I have monitored day-to-day operations at a recreational facility; and/or I have assisted in umpiring/officiating team sporting events; and/or I have coached in a sports league or worked at a health club. I have assisted in scheduling arts and crafts activities in an assisted living facility; and/or I have assisted a supervisor in coordinating a sports league; and/or I have as a member of a group, coordinated an end-of-season party for players of an organized sports team. None of the above. 7 The Sports Specialist must understand current philosophies and guidelines regarding recreation, wellness, and leisure activities. To successfully fulfill the requirements of this position, he/she must possess the ability to perform multiple tasks simultaneously and demonstrate effective planning and organizational skills.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled and coordinated hours of operation and recreation programs for a gymnasium; and/or I have assisted in the organization and operation of unrelated wellness/fitness/leisure programs; and/or I have utilized an existing database to complete/track assignments; and/or I have ensured internal deadlines were met timely; and/or I have monitored supply usage and informed supervisor of restocking needs; and/or I have maintained program-related records and files. I have supervised unstructured large recreational activities with others (i.e., open gym, playground); and/or I have supervised small groups of participants independently; and/or I have conducted inventories of equipment and supplies. I have successfully coordinated and oversaw multiple recreation/wellness activities occurring simultaneously; and/or I have effectively managed multiple programs by training a number of participants to assist in various tasks; and/or I have adjusted priorities based on program needs or requests; and/or I have established and implemented a database to track progress of assignments; and/or I have prepared quarterly/annual supply needs based on program usage; and/or I have purchased supplies based on assigned program budgets. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).