Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department of Education Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15 - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal government. I do not meet this requirement. 2 All grades -Choose the one answer that best describes you. Answer to this question is required I am under the age of 37 prior to the opening date of this announcement. I am currently in or have previously held a criminal investigator type position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 3 Please select all of the following types of violations, in which you have been the lead agent on the investigation: Answer to this question is required Student Financial Aid Fraud Grant Fraud False Statements Computer Crime Contract Fraud Ethics Violations Employee administrative violations None of the above 4 Please select all of the following types of prosecutions, which you have been the lead agent on the investigation: Answer to this question is required Qui Tams Non-Qui Tam Civil Cases Criminal Fraud Cases Parallel Proceedings (concurrent civil and criminal) None of the above 5 Select the investigative task(s) you have performed independently in support of criminal and civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Developed information sources/leads Evaluated allegations of criminal or civil wrongdoing Developed investigative work plans Conducted investigative interviews Completed affidavits for arrest or search warrants Issued subpoenas or court orders Participated on an investigative team None of the above 6 Select the type(s) of financial documents you have analyzed to identify regulatory inconsistencies and/or fraud. Answer to this question is required Bank statements Account ledgers Journal entries Financial applications, records or reports Electronic data from financial databases None of the above 7 Select the supervisory task(s) you have completed in the management of an investigative group or team. Answer to this question is required Conducted performance evaluations Recruited new employees Engaged in progressive discipline of employees Coordinated training and development activities for staff Developed budget plan for operational expenditures None of the above 8 Select the supervisory task(s) you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Distributed assignments to team members or employees Set priorities for employees or team members Reviewed, amended or rejected the work of others Developed employee performance plans Evaluated subordinate(s) performance None of the above 9 With which of the following elements of leadership do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation Recruitment / hiring Awards Assign and delegate work Establish performance standards Team building Time and attendance Conflict resolution Motivation Employee development / training Mentoring None of the above 10 Select the task(s) you have performed regularly in support of criminal and civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Participated on a team to conduct an investigation Coordinated an investigation with other law enforcement agencies Worked closely with individuals and groups to gain a consensus Persuaded others to accept your findings, recommendations or alternative viewpoints Presented factual findings to prosecutors or other decision making officials None of the above 11 Select the recurring contact(s) you have experience maintaining in order to negotiate an investigative plan. Answer to this question is required Investigation team members Supervisors Program staff Federal representatives from outside your agency Representatives from other public or private entities None of the above 12 Select the investigative task(s) you have supervised in support of criminal and/or civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Participated on an investigative team Coordinated an investigation with other law enforcement agencies Served as a lead investigator on complex investigations Determined the scope and direction of an investigation Executed search and arrest warrants Collected and preserved physical evidence Examined records Presented factual findings to prosecutors or other decision making officials None of the above 13 Select the number of criminal and/or civil investigation(s) you have supervised during the last two years. Answer to this question is required 0-2 3-5 6-8 9-11 12 or more 14 Select the supervisory tasks you have performed. Answer to this question is required Assigned work to employees Monitored progress of investigations Provided technical assistance to employees Set priorities for employees or team members None of the above 15 Select the types of document(s) you have written as a regular part of your experience. Answer to this question is required Investigation plans Memoranda of Interview Investigative findings Supporting documents for affidavits or subpoenas Final investigative reports None of the above 16 Analyzes budget submissions for consistency with established policies. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Applies Federal budget and appropriations processes, laws, regulations, policies and procedures governing an agency`s budget execution activities. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Notices FOIA Privacy Accessibility Security Information Quality Inspector General Whitehouse.gov USA.gov Benefits.gov Regulations.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).