Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in safety or occupational health fields (safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene) OR I possess a degree in other related fields that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of study from among the following (or closely related) disciplines: safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene, occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology. I have experience in specific occupational fields such as industrial hygienist, safety engineer, fire prevention engineer, health physicist, and occupational health nurse which has given me the experience described in the OPM Qualifications Standards for Safety and Occupational Health Management Series, 0018 under “Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5)” (http://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/0000/safety-and-occupational-health-management-series-0018/ ). I possess Certification that shows that I am a Certified Safety Professional (CSP), Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH), or Certified Health Physicist (CHP), or similar certification that includes successful completion of a written examination. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you performed routine, risk based, Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP), food code intervention, pre-opening or similar compliance based inspections? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you evaluated new and existing work processes or products to assess the existence, severity, probability, and outcome of hazards and communicated corrective actions to assure compliance with applicable regulations of public health significance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 What types of investigations have you performed? Answer to this question is required Foodborne/waterborne illness investigations Indoor Air Quality investigations Adulterated product investigations Water quality investigations Hazardous material release investigations None of the above 6 With which individuals have you collaborated to develop solutions to issues of an occupational or public health significance? Answer to this question is required First line/field employees Managers/Supervisors Design Engineers Contracting Officer's Technical Representatives (COTRs) Other Occupational and Environmental Health Specialists Public safety personnel High-level leaders within your agency/organization None of the above 7 Which specialized equipment have you used during an inspection? Answer to this question is required A thermocouple thermometer A maximum registering thermometer An infrared thermometer A thermistor thermometer Litmus paper A data logger A pH meter A particle counter None of the above 8 Check all the responses that describe your experience with writing occupational and environmental health related documents. Answer to this question is required I have created new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). I have updated existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). I have composed complex occupational safety and health documents or correspondence such as Agency cooperative or recognition programs. I have written reports or findings regarding complaint investigation reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant case files, etc. I have developed occupational environmental health technical guidance or other instructional materials. I have composed daily activity reports regarding complex investigations. None of the above 9 Which response best describes your highest level of experience recommending or implementing corrective measures for eliminating or controlling environmental, safety, and/or health hazards? Answer to this question is required I recommended and implemented a variety of corrective measures, including removal or substitution materials or equipment, modifications to equipment/work processes to minimize hazards, and use of personal protective equipment. I have experience implementing corrective measures recommended by others. I have completed training or education on this topic but do not have relevant on the job experience. I do not have training, education, or experience recommending or implementing corrective measures. 10 With which individuals have you collaborated to develop solutions to occupational health and safety issues? Answer to this question is required First line/field employees Project engineers Design engineers Contracting Officer's Technical Representatives (COTRs) Other Safety and Occupational Health Specialists Public safety personnel High-level leaders within your agency/organization None of the above 11 Which laws, regulations, codes, or standards have you interpreted and applied at work? Answer to this question is required Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation 29 CFR 1910 Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation 29 CFR 1926 U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) codes/regulations U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) codes/regulations American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) standards U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) laws/regulations U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) laws/regulations State and local regulations related to safety and occupational health None of the above 12 Have you orally explained complex safety, environmental health, industrial hygiene or occupational health issues to others? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I have advised others on technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Which response best reflects your highest level of experience working cooperatively and collaboratively with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have worked on a team where each member had been designated a distinctly separate role and required minimal collaboration. I have encouraged individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with others to achieve a goal by sharing and integrating ideas, knowledge, information, and support resources. In a leadership capacity, I improved teamwork, cooperation, and productivity among various offices and teams. None of the above. 15 Have you worked in a comprehensive risk management program that included safety, occupational health, and/or environmental programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.