Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled. OR B. Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s). Supervising or administering a training program. Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results. Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 1. &nbsp; Applicant must possess and maintain a current certificate from one of the following recognized certifying agencies as an advanced-to-expert level dog trainer with expertise in animal behavior: A. IAABC-CDBC - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Certified Dog Behavior Consultant OR B. NADOI - National Association of Dog Obedience Instructors OR C. IACP-PDTI - International Association of Canine Professionals- Professional Dog Trainer Instructor OR D. CAAB - Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist OR E. DACVB - Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists OR F. PCBC-A - Professional Canine Behavior Consultant (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR G. Certification as CBCC-KA-Certified Behavior Consultant Canine-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) AND a. CPDT-KA - Certified Professional Dog Trainer-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) OR b. IAABC-ADT - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Accredited Dog Trainer OR c. CPT-A - Canine Personal Trainer (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR d. IACP-CDTA - International Association of Canine Professionals Certified Dog Trainer Advanced) AND 2. Applicant must have one (1) year teaching experience AND 3. Applicant must also have two (2) years of work experience as a lead dog trainer. 3 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this ability in their resume to be found qualified and/or upload supporting documentation at the time of application. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 5.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5.1 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to converse effectively and speak clearly and concisely with individuals both internal and external to the agency. This includes interacting with executive staff, central and regional office personnel, educators, institution staff, students/inmates, contractors, volunteers, and other stakeholders under both routine and challenging circumstances.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions from students/inmates about assignments or schedules; and/or I have spoken with team members about daily activities; and/or I have communicated task expectations to learners in a controlled environment. I have presented overviews of program area to new or visiting individuals; and/or I have spoken with community service or volunteer groups; and/or I have discussed students’ progress with stakeholders such as counselors or case workers. I have presented Admission and Orientation (A&O) sessions to new students/inmates; and/or I have provided regular instructional guidance or performance feedback; and/or I have informed a supervisor of classroom issues and recommended alternatives; and/or I have collaborated with external contacts to enhance instruction (i.e., guest speakers, program partners). None of the above. 5.2 The Vocational Training Instructor must demonstrate knowledge and application of instructional strategies, learning theories and subject matter expertise appropriate to the trade or academic content area being taught.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified existing curriculum to meet student needs; and/or I have used hands-on learning methods or demonstrations; and/or I have supervised students through structured activities or labs; and/or I have applied teaching aids (i.e., study guides, worksheets, testing materials); and/or I have utilized classroom technology to support instruction. I have followed lesson plans and instructional pacing guides; and/or I have demonstrated basic trade skills to students; and/or I have assisted students with structured assignments and practice tasks; and/or I have used classroom visuals, worksheets, and basic instructional supports. I have written lesson extensions or supplemental material to enhance existing curriculum; and/or I have assisted in developing teacher guides or adapting materials for learners; and/or I have used multimedia technology for instruction (i.e., online platforms, video modules); and/or I have developed or adapted lessons to accommodate multiple learning styles; and/or I have implemented blended learning strategies or digital tools to engage students. None of the above. 5.3 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to design and modify curriculum content and individualized instructional plans.&nbsp;This includes using a system for tracking student progress and tailoring learning materials to meet varying student needs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written course modules, study guides, or learning objectives; and/or I have developed instructional models or tools to improve learning outcomes; and/or I have designed tailored learning paths for students with varying needs; and/or I have used performance-based goals to assess individualized instruction. I have assisted in adjusting lessons or activities on instructor feedback; and/or I have modified existing materials (i.e., worksheets, rubrics, or project prompts) to align with student needs; and/or I have collaborated with a lead instructor to revise lesson timing or content delivery; and/or I have adapted individual assignments to reinforce specific learning objectives; and/or I have participated in curriculum review or planning discussions and offered content suggestions. I have assisted with writing portions of lesson plans, teacher manuals, or training materials; and/or I have contributed content to a team-designed instructional program; and/or I have developed basic modules or activities within an existing curriculum; and/or I have provided suggestions for lesson adaptation based on student progress. None of the above. 5.4 The Vocational Training Instructor in a correctional or institutional setting provides instruction to a variety of students with various educational backgrounds, cultures, learning needs, and life experiences. This includes adapting teaching methods and materials to accommodate varying literacy levels, behavior challenges, learning preferences, and social-emotional needs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught or assisted students in a juvenile detention or alternative program from mixed economic, cultural, or educational backgrounds; and/or I have used available curriculum developed by others to address differing student needs; and/or I have adapted existing lessons with guidance to address cultural or ability-based learning differences; and/or I have identified or applied tools/criteria to help assign students to appropriate instructional tracks. I have instructed inmates/students in a conventional setting with moderate-to-low literacy or varied behavioral challenges; and/or I have supported the creation of instructional activities that addressed cultural and educational differences; and/or I have adapted motivational strategies to promote engagement; and/or I have assisted in selecting materials or customizing content for varied inmate/student needs; and/or I have used basic assessment tools to place inmates/students in appropriate instructional levels. I have supported students with varied learning styles in group or one-on-one activities; and/or I have helped organize materials for instruction in multicultural or mixed ability classes; and/or I have used prepared assessments to monitor student placement or progress. None of the above. 5.5 The Vocational Training Instructor must have a strong knowledge of trade industry standards, methodologies, and techniques for teaching their respective trade at a professional level.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written curriculum units of study within the trade area aligned to industry practices and standards; and/or I have taught as part of a team or partnered with another instructor to deliver trade education in a post-secondary or professional setting; and/or I have customized and implemented commercially available curriculum and shared locally; and/or I have participated in program evaluation, accreditation preparation, or curriculum review activities; and/or I have collaborated with employers or agencies to align instruction with labor market needs. I have taught professional or technical classes related to the trade specific area (i.e., high school, community program, or adult education setting); and/or I have conducted one-on-one or small-group on-the-job training (OJT) at a work site; and/or I have tutored entry-level students or apprentices in trade fundamentals; and/or I have provided informal instruction, apprenticeships, or job-shadowing experiences; and/or I have demonstrated basic instructional planning. I have provided job-site training or demonstrations as a tradesperson or technician; and/or I have conducted individual or small group tutoring in foundational trade skills; and/or I have supported instruction through mentorship, apprenticeships, or informal workplace training; and/or I have delivered safety or technical skills refreshers under supervision or as part of a larger instructional team; and/or I have demonstrated hands-on expertise. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled. OR B. Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s). Supervising or administering a training program. Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results. Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 1.&nbsp; Applicant must possess and maintain a current certificate from one of the following recognized certifying agencies as an advanced-to-expert level dog trainer with expertise in animal behavior: A.&nbsp; IAABC-CDBC - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Certified Dog Behavior Consultant OR B.&nbsp;&nbsp; NADOI - National Association of Dog Obedience Instructors OR C.&nbsp; IACP-PDTI - International Association of Canine Professionals- Professional Dog Trainer Instructor OR D.&nbsp; CAAB - Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist OR E.&nbsp;&nbsp; DACVB - Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists OR F.&nbsp;&nbsp; PCBC-A - Professional Canine Behavior Consultant (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR G.&nbsp;&nbsp; Certification as CBCC-KA-Certified Behavior Consultant Canine-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) AND a. CPDT-KA - Certified Professional Dog Trainer-Knowledge Assessed (from the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers) OR b. IAABC-ADT - International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants- Accredited Dog Trainer OR c. CPT-A - Canine Personal Trainer (from the Pet Professional Accreditation Board) OR d. IACP-CDTA - International Association of Canine Professionals Certified Dog Trainer Advanced) AND 2.&nbsp;&nbsp; Applicant must have one (1) year teaching experience AND 3.&nbsp;&nbsp; Applicant must also have three (3) years of work experience as a lead dog trainer. 3 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: All applicants must clearly address this ability in their resume to be found qualified and/or upload supporting documentation at the time of application. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 5.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5.1 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to converse effectively and speak clearly and concisely with individuals both internal and external to the agency. This includes interacting with executive staff, central and regional office personnel, educators, institution staff, students/inmates, contractors, volunteers, and other stakeholders under both routine and challenging circumstances.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented Admission and Orientation (A&O) sessions to new students/inmates; and/or I have provided regular instructional guidance or performance feedback; and/or I have informed a supervisor of classroom issues and recommended alternatives; and/or I have collaborated with external contacts to enhance instruction (i.e., guest speakers, program partners). I have presented overviews of program area to new or visiting individuals; and/or I have spoken with community service or volunteer groups; and/or I have discussed students' progress with stakeholders such as counselors or case workers. I have led or presented during formal external events (i.e., facility tours, trade shows, career days); and/or I have delivered professional presentations to outside agencies or advisory boards; and/or I have served as a spokesperson or liaison to resolve student/inmate conflicts or policy concern; and/or I have successfully de-escalated tense interactions with hostile individuals; and/or I have addressed concerns or complaints from students/inmates and provided resolution through professional dialogue. None of the above. 5.2 The Vocational Training Instructor must demonstrate knowledge and application of instructional strategies, learning theories and subject matter expertise appropriate to the trade or academic content area being taught.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed original curriculum or instructional resources aligned to trade/industry standards; and/or I have created teaching manuals or guides to demonstrate techniques to others; and/or I have integrated advanced tools (i.e., simulations, Learning Management System (LMS) platforms) into instruction; and/or I have developed and tested teaching theories or models that exceeded typical instructional practices (i.e., piloted an instructional theory or product in a vocational context); and/or I have delivered instructional workshops or training to other instructors. I have modified existing curriculum to meet student needs; and/or I have used hands-on learning methods or demonstrations; and/or I have supervised students through structured activities or labs; and/or I have applied teaching aids (i.e., study guides, worksheets, testing materials); and/or I have utilized classroom technology to support instruction. I have written lesson extensions or supplemental material to enhance existing curriculum; and/or I have assisted in developing teacher guides or adapting materials for learners; and/or I have used multimedia technology for instruction (i.e., online platforms, video modules); and/or I have developed or adapted lessons to accommodate multiple learning styles; and/or I have implemented blended learning strategies or digital tools to engage students. None of the above. 5.3 The Vocational Training Instructor must be able to design and modify curriculum content and individualized instructional plans. This includes using a system for tracking student progress and tailoring learning materials to meet varying student needs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with writing portions of lesson plans, teacher manuals, or training materials; and/or I have contributed content to a team-designed instructional program; and/or I have developed basic modules or activities within an existing curriculum; and/or I have provided suggestions for lesson adaptation based on student progress). I have written course modules, study guides, or learning objectives; and/or I have developed instructional models or tools to improve learning outcomes; and/or I have designed tailored learning paths for students with varying needs; and/or I have used performance-based goals to assess individualized instruction. I have authored specific instructional units or textbook study guides; and/or I have developed curriculum used across a post-secondary or institutional program; and/or I have designed individualized instructional plans adopted by others; and/or I have created or revised curriculum aligned with state or industry standards; and/or I have led curriculum planning for high-impact or varying learning environments. None of the above. 5.4 The Vocational Training Instructor in a correctional or institutional setting provides instruction to a variety of students with various educational backgrounds, cultures, learning needs, and life experiences.&nbsp;This includes adapting teaching methods and materials to accommodate varying literacy levels, behavior challenges, learning preferences, and social-emotional needs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught or assisted students in a juvenile detention or alternative program from mixed economic, cultural, or educational backgrounds; and/or I have used available curriculum developed by others to address differing student needs; and/or I have adapted existing lessons with guidance to address cultural or ability-based learning differences; and/or I have identified or applied tools/criteria to help assign students to appropriate instructional tracks. I have taught adult basic education or vocational skills to unique populations (i.e., high-risk, high-security, low-literacy inmates); and/or I have created curriculum and activities that integrated varied cultural perspectives and learning styles; and/or I have independently adapted materials and lessons to meet wide-ranging student needs; and/or I have designed motivational strategies to engage students with differing goals, behavior, or educational histories; and/or I have selected materials, planned differentiated lessons, and used assessment tools to identify entry-level skills. I have instructed inmates/students in a conventional setting with moderate-to-low literacy or varied behavioral challenges; and/or I have supported the creation of instructional activities that addressed cultural and educational differences; and/or I have adapted motivational strategies to promote engagement; and/or I have assisted in selecting materials or customizing content for varied inmate/student needs; and/or I have used basic assessment tools to place inmates/students in appropriate instructional levels. None of the above. 5.5 The Vocational Training Instructor must have a strong knowledge of trade industry standards, methodologies, and techniques for teaching their respective trade at a professional level.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and implemented entire curriculum frameworks aligned with national or industry-recognized certification standards; and/or I have authored textbooks, procedural manuals, or technical trade documentation and shared with other professionals; and/or I have provided instruction to post-secondary, adult, or professional learners in structured programs (i.e., community college, accredited vocational trade schools, technical institutes, or national trade associations). I have led or contributed to trade credentialing boards, workforce development councils, or advisory committees; and/or I have supervised, mentored, or evaluated other trade instructors or training personnel; and/or I have aligned instructional delivery with compliance standards (i.e., Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), National Center for Construction Education and Research (NCCER), National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (ASE), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) certifications). I have written curriculum units of study within the trade area aligned to industry practices and standards; and/or I have taught as part of a team or partnered with another instructor to deliver trade education in a post-secondary or professional setting; and/or I have customized and implemented commercially available curriculum and shared locally; and/or I have participated in program evaluation, accreditation preparation, or curriculum review activities; and/or I have collaborated with employers or agencies to align instruction with labor market needs. I have taught professional or technical classes related to the trade specific area (i.e., high school, community program, or adult education setting); and/or I have conducted one-on-one or small-group on-the-job training (OJT) at a work site; and/or I have tutored entry-level students or apprentices in trade fundamentals; and/or I have provided informal instruction, apprenticeships, or job-shadowing experiences; and/or I have demonstrated basic instructional planning. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).