Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No General Engineer: (1)&nbsp; Providing expert advice regarding all aspects of planning, design, modernization, operation, and repair of building systems; (2) Exercising project controls (ex., scheduling, resources, trades) in the execution of projects; (3) Serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on assigned construction and consultant contracts; and (4) Developing and executing actions to meet strategic and planning goals. Architecture: (1) Performing architectural design, technical reviews, quality control, and project management on building projects from planning and programming through construction; (2) Assessing compliance with construction standards, preparing full construction drawings and specifications, and preparing scope of work documents and statements of work; (3) Applying technical knowledge of architectural and historic preservation and engineering concepts, methods, and procedures; and (4) Serving as Contracting Officer Representative (COR) or equivalent.&nbsp; 3 Licensure&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess a license to practice Engineering in a Jurisdiction located within the United States and recognized by that’s State’s Governing Body. I possess a license to practice Architecture in a Jurisdiction located within the United States and recognized by that’s State’s Governing Body. None of the above. 4 Select the topics on which you have independently researched or performed analyses as part of the pre-design stage. Answer to this question is required Site analysis / selection Existing building condition assessment (e.g., functional, structural, code issues) Construction cost estimating Facility and infrastructure analysis Programming objectives (i.e., client needs, project goals) None of the above 5 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. 6 Which statement best describes your experience preparing technical evaluations of contractor proposals, recommending a pre-negotiation position for contracts, and assisting with contract negotiations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which activities have you performed in construction oversight? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Construction observation and field reporting. Construction compliance inspection and acceptance. Responding to requests for information and design clarification. Reviewing and approving shop drawings.. Reviewing and approving contractor pay requests. Preparing/reviewing change order scopes of work. Reviewing contract documents to confirm design error or discrepancy. Evaluating cost and time impact of changes and modifying construction schedules. Preparing independent estimate of change order costs. Negotiating change order costs with contractors. None of the above. 8 Do you have experience developing long range construction plans for large organizations or government agencies? Plans would include development of Capital Improvement Plans developing building system assessment data for future projects. If so, please provide experience. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 10 Do you have experience managing facilities in historic multi-purpose buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Do you have experience with the procurement of design-build and design-bid-build construction projects? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Which response best describes your highest level of experience administering contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience administering contracts. I have education or training related to administering contracts, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team to administer contracts. I have independently administered contracts of a less complex nature [e.g., actions under simplified acquisition procedures (SAP), mandatory sources of supply]. I have independently administered contracts of a complex nature [e.g., contracts with multi-year schedules] until final delivery and payments were completed and the contract was closed and retired or until termination actions were completed. I have been granted a contracting warrant and functioned as a contracting officer for construction contracts. 14 Please describe your experience resolving conflicts between historic preservation requirements and principles and other project requirements. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Which outcomes have you achieved when resolving problems? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency and/or productivity The development and implementation of a new policy A cost-savings Complying with codes while maintaining client goals Improved customer satisfaction None of the above 16 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 17 Which of the following groups of people have you coordinated and briefed with on planning initiatives? Answer to this question is required Local Agencies Federal Agencies High level individuals within an organization or agency General Public None of the above 18 Have you done construction and renovation work on buildings that require historic preservation? Answer to this question is required. Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume.&nbsp;Maximum length of 1000 characters. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 14 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.