Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [1090] Choose the description that best describes your experience inspecting and performing repairs to engineering and construction equipment. Answer to this question is required With technical supervision from a heavy equipment mechanic, I can inspect, troubleshoot and repair the following: cranes, engineering and construction equipment; control, electrical, pneumatic, and hydraulic systems including engines, transmissions, and differentials; cables, clamps, outriggers, attachments, moving parts, running gear, etc. I can make adjustments to master clutch, brakes/controls on cranes, etc. I have the ability to use cutting torch and a variety of test equipment. Independently and without supervision, I have experience as a heavy equipment mechanic performing most types of troubleshooting, inspecting and repairing. I can and have performed all of the tasks listed in the response above, plus I can weld and cut using gas and arc welding equipment and cutting torch. I can use a variety of test equipment and analyzers. With general technical supervision, I can troubleshoot and repair general motor vehicles. I can assist with major maintenance on cranes, engineering and construction equipment. I can inspect and make minor repairs to cables, clamps, outriggers, attachments, moving parts, running gear, etc. I can make minor adjustments to master clutch, brakes/controls on cranes, etc. None of the above. 9 [1098] Do you have the ability to operate crane controls making difficult clearance judgments while watching the moving load and boom, and compensating for the variations in cranes lifting capacity during position changes and compensating for weather conditions such as wind? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 [1075] Choose the description that best describes your experience operating hydraulic and/or cable cranes. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to operate conventional hydraulic and cable cranes in excess of 25 tons, where maneuverability is restricted and accuracy is critical. I have the ability to operate conventional hydraulic cranes in excess of 25 tons, where maneuverability is generally not restricted and accuracy is critical. Lifts within the capacity of crane, boom length and angles are not critical. I have the ability to operate conventional hydraulic in excess of 25 tons, where maneuverability and accuracy is not critical. None of the above. 11 [1074] Select the one response that describes your ability to lift heavy objects. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to lift weights up to 50 pounds. I have the ability to lift up to 50 pounds independently and over 50 pounds with assistance. I have the ability to lift over 50 pounds independently, and the knowledge of lifting techniques for heavier weights. None of the above 12 [921] As an operator are you able to adjust to changes quickly and smoothly while continuing to work safely? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 [4479] Select the equipment that you are skilled in operating. Answer to this question is required Air Compressors Forklifts Mobile Cranes Motor Vehicles Bridge Cranes Hydraulic Systems Operating Machinery None of the above 14 [4476] Select the response(s) that you have used to compute dimensions. Answer to this question is required Addition Metric System Algebra Plane Geometry Trigonometry Multiplication Subtraction None of the Above 15 [990] Select the answer that best represents your knowledge and experience with shipboard, marina, and dock work. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 16 [4508] Choose the one response that best describes your knowledge, in a shop environment, of rigging while utilizing cables, slings, wire rope and nylon rigging. Answer to this question is required I have shop experience working with wire rope, cables, and slings under the direct guidance of higher level workers. I have shop experience working with wire rope, cables, and slings while signaling fixed and mobile equipment such as RT cranes and truck cranes. I have shop experience working with overhead cranes while utilizing wire rope, cables, and slings with some guidance. I also have the ability to make a few knots and splices. None of the above 17 [8951] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience in troubleshooting to determine the nature and extent of repairs necessary, materials or parts needed. Answer to this question is required I have done little to no troubleshooting on the job. I have had study or training in troubleshooting, but have not applied it on the job. I have used my knowledge or training in troubleshooting, but I have been closely supervised. I have applied my knowledge and/or experience in troubleshooting on my own, with little to no immediate supervision. I commonly troubleshoot on the job with no supervision. I supervise or train others in troubleshooting. 18 [19405] Select the statement that best describes your experience conducting compliance inspections on board ships in a marine environment for state and federal regulatory agencies. Answer to this question is required I have conducted compliance inspections for state and federal regulatory agencies. I have conducted compliance inspections in a marine environment for state and federal regulatory agencies. I have conducted compliance inspections on board ships in a marine environment for state and federal regulatory agencies. I have conducted compliance inspections on board ships in a marine environment for state and federal agencies. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job, and often assist others with this task. None of the above 19 [1076] Select the one response that best reflects your ability to perform heavy work. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to perform heavy work standing, bending, climbing, stooping and reaching with frequent rest periods. I have the ability to frequently perform heavy work continually standing, bending, climbing, stooping and reaching with infrequent rest periods. None of the above 20 [1066] Choose the description that best describes your ability to follow instructions. Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience following written or oral instructions at work without direct supervision. I have followed written or oral instructions to perform routine maintenance work with direct supervision. I have demonstrated the ability to independently interpret blueprints and technical manuals for routine maintenance work with minimal supervision. I have demonstrated superior ability in interpreting and explaining instructions, blueprints, new procedures, and safe operation methods to others. I have demonstrated the ability to use maintenance manuals to perform more than routine maintenance on a variety of mechanical equipment with little or no supervision. 21 [1033] I have successfully used, applied and or followed the following instruction methods and guidelines on the job: Answer to this question is required Instruction manuals Blueprints Sketches Specifications Arithmetic Verbal instructions Written instructions Standard procedures Mathmatical Calculations None of the above 22 [22288] Select the statement that best describes your experience using technical practices with regards to loading/unloading methods to prevent damage during transport and to expedite unloading. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. 23 [5113] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions (e.g., bad weather, over extreme heights, near water). Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have applied my knowledge of general safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. 24 [1080] Select the one response that best describes your ability to work with others. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to work with others with minimal supervision. I have the ability to work independently and with others with minimal supervision. None of the above. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 25 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 28 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 29 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 30 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 30.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 30.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 30.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).