Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 [343] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-14 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [72212]&nbsp; Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience utilizing program management techniques and methodologies in the oversight of projects (I.E. Scheduling vessel dismantlement, recycling, and equipment harvesting) assigned, and overseeing project planning, implementation, and execution? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [72213] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience conducting surveys and inspections of ship dismantling/recycling, shipyard, and other marine industry contractors and facilities to determine capability as it relates to pre-qualification programs, capability/capacity, and abilities? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [55629] Select the best statement that describes your experience planning, assigning, and establishing work priorities and deadlines for a staff or contract team. Answer to this question is required I do not have this experience. I have experience working alongside contractors, but not directing their work priorities as a part of my job. I have this experience as part of my duties as a Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR). I have experience in this area as a regular part of my job (but not as a COR), and it is well-documented in my resume. I have experience working with contractors and establishing or directing their work priorities as a part of my job, and this is well-documented in my resume. 5 [63494] Select the statement that best describes your highest level of equal or equivalent experience supervising/managing a diverse workforce for at least one year. This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have education and/or training in supervising/managing a diverse workforce, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a more senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a more senior employee. I have one year of experience supervising/managing a diverse workforce. I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 6 [4735] Select the area(s) in which you have substantial demonstrated experience developing employees' potential and maximizing their ability to succeed in their jobs. Answer to this question is required I have directed a team or unit and achieved positive, measurable results. I have provided training in continuous process improvement. I have designed and implemented programs to meet the unit's organizational goals. I have provided career counseling and coaching. I have developed, implemented, and tracked individual devlopment plans to meet the organizational needs. I have tracked employees' progress against training and career goals. I have coached and developed a multi-disciplinary, diverse staff. I have provided a model for creative thinking, innovative solutions, and non-traditional approaches to improve a unit's effectiveness. none of the above 7 [33691] Select the statement that best describes your experience and knowledge in the understanding of shipboard supply/maintenance management and support principles/practices, to operate a logistics/maintenance support system capable of supporting commercial and/or government vessels. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing shipboard supply/maintenance management and support principles and practices aboard a ship or ships. I have received education or training in performing shipboard supply/maintenance management and support principles and practices aboard a ship or ships, but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience performing shipboard supply/maintenance management and support principles and practices aboard a ship or ships with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have experience performing shipboard supply/maintenance management and support principles and practices aboard a ship or ships as a regular part of my job, and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience performing shipboard supply/maintenance management and support principles and practices aboard a ship or ships as a regular part of my job even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in performing shipboard supply/maintenance management and support principles and practices aboard a ship or ships. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 8 [72205] Do you have experience developing and reporting program metrics or performance indicators?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [72206] Do you have experience providing leadership and guidance to a multi-disciplinary staff in the management of programs or special projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 [72207] Select the response that best describes your experience in one or more of the following: process improvement, strategic and risk management, performance management and metrics, and/or change management techniques. Answer to this question is required I have experience in process improvement. I have experience in strategic and risk management. I have experience in change management. I have experience in performance management and metrics. I have experience in two of the following: process improvement, strategic and risk management, performance management and metrics, and/or change management techniques. I have experience in three of the following: process improvement, strategic and risk management, performance management and metrics, and/or change management techniques. I have experience in all if the following: process improvement, strategic and risk management, performance management and metrics, and/or change management techniques. I do not have experience in any of the following: process improvement, strategic and risk management, performance management and metrics, and/or change management techniques. 11 [1930] Select the response that best describes your experience ensuring that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR). Answer to this question is required I have not had experience ensuring that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR). I have completed education or training in ensuring that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR), but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have ensured that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have ensured that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have ensured that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) routinely as a major part of my work. I have supervised or trained others in performing this task and/or others have consulted me for expert assistance in performing this task. 12 [6077] Select the response(s) that demonstrates(s) your knowledge and experience of commercial ship repair. Answer to this question is required I have participated in the dry docking of ocean vessels. I have managed repairs of ocean going vessels in a dry dock and ship repair facility. I have served as an officer aboard an ocean going vessel during a ship repair period and been involved in the oversight of repairs. I have served as a licensed officer aboard an ocean going vessel and am familiar with repair and maintenance tasks and procedures. I have no experience in commercial ship repair. 13 [36450] Select the engineering analysis(es) you have performed as a regular part of your job or as a substantial project in your educational process. Answer to this question is required Hull Form Design Hydrostatic Properties Intact Stability Analysis Damage Stability Analysis Structures, including Hull Longitudinal Strength Ship Deadweight Survey and Light Weight Stability Test Light Ship Weight Estimates by Category Speed-Power and Resistance Finite Element Analysis (FEA) None of the above 14 [36748] Select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience collecting, analyzing, and synthesizing data, and establishing and institutionalizing processes across an organization to prepare standardized reports needed to meet program requirements. Answer to this question is required I have developed methods and approaches for collecting data. I have identified important issues, and recommended ways to improve data collection and reporting processes to ensure program compliance. I have applied analytical skills or techniques to review data and processes, and prepared findings. I have evaluated and recommended ways to improve program performance. I have implemented program or project enhancements to meet performance metrics. I have developed recommendations to expedite program processes and eliminate barriers. None of the above. 15 [72208] Select the response that best describes your experience analyzing and evaluating changes in program funding and their effect on program performance. Answer to this question is required I have some experience analyzing and evaluating changes in program funding and their effect on program performance. I have extensive experience analyzing and evaluating changes in program funding and their effect on program performance. I do not have experience analyzing and evaluating changes in program funding and their effect on program performance. 16 [7017] Select the statement that best describes your experience and skill in researching, conducting analyses, studies, analytical techniques and report preparation. Answer to this question is required I have limited experience in researching, conducting analyses, studies, analytical techniques and report preparation. I have a moderate amount of experience in researching, conducting analyses, studies, analytical techniques and report preparation and consider myself competent. I have significant experience in researching, conducting analyses, studies, analytical techniques and report preparation and consider it one of my strengths. I have extensive experience in researching, conducting analyses, studies, analytical techniques and report preparation and have mastered this skill. None of the above 17 [60943] Choose the statement that best describes your experience preparing briefings, issue papers, project summaries, correspondence, answers to Congressional questions (inquiries), reports to Congress, and other written materials. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in either preparing or reviewing briefings, issue papers, project summaries, correspondence, answers to Congressional questions, reports to Congress, or other written materials. I have had education or training in either preparing or reviewing briefings, issue papers, project summaries, correspondence, answers to Congressional questions, reports to Congress, and other written materials, but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience in either preparing or reviewing briefings, issue papers, project summaries, correspondence, answers to Congressional questions, reports to Congress, and other written materials. 18 [4300] Select the statement(s) that demonstrate your communication experience as it relates to developing and presenting briefings. Answer to this question is required I participated in organizational level sessions to determine the overall program strategies pursued in an agency`s development of high-level presentation materials. I conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances, including answering difficult questions, debating issues and proving a point. I contacted other agency personnel in order to resolve, obtain and provide information regarding significant organizational issues. I prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding where communication involved interaction with an audience and the audience was responsive to the information presented. I prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature, where communication involved little or no interaction with an audience. None of the above. 19 [54300] Do you have experience managing and coordinating executive secretarial-level or comparable correspondence program involving legislative, congressional, and/or mission related policy issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 [60097] Select the statement that best describes your level of experience working with other government agencies, including the Department of Defense. Answer to this question is required I have worked with Federal agencies on matters related to merchant marine safety and security. I have served as a merchant marine naval reservist on maritime security matters. I have not worked with any U.S. government agencies on maritime security matters. 21 [7969] This position requires that you be able to express facts and ideas in writing in a clear, convincing, and organized manner and to make clear and convincing oral and written reports. Select the statement that best describes your level of experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing and in-person. Answer to this question is required I have experience using a variety of written communication modalities, particularly within automated and networked media, to gain widespread understanding and commitment for change and action within the organization. I have experience communicating information about my work unit's activities to peers and higher level management. I have prepared written reports or given presentations or briefings on complex logistical or technical issues that required explanation of laws, regulations, practices and precedents. I have experience providing expert program advice to representatives from other organizations or interest groups, on complex and controversial or sensitive legal or technical issues that required explanation of laws, regulations, practices, and precedents. I have extensive experience drafting, editing, revising, and/or reviewing complex logistic materials and reports that have agency-wide impact. I have experience meeting with internal and external stakeholders and/or influential parties to explain or defend and gain acceptance of, or commitment to, my organization's policies and practices. My experience is not reflected in any of the above responses. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 14 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 14.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 14.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 14.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).