Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a variety of databases to complete tasks such as: a project paper, report, or study; compile data or information needed to complete a project or program requirement; resolve a matter in dispute; or answer a question? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Select the response that BEST describes your experience interpreting and analyzing highly complex information to discern patterns, trends, and relationships and to draw conclusions by applying rules that involve many steps: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 6 Identify all of the following types of teams on which you have participated: Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary/ cross functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 8 Select the response that BEST describes your experience handling multiple priorities and competing deadlines: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 9 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating policies and/or procedures via a formal written document: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have worked in partnership with subject matter experts and together we have performed this task. I have performed this task under the general supervision of a subject matter expert or supervisor. I have provided supervision and training to others so they can perform this task. 10 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 11 Which of the following project management tools / techniques do you prefer to use? Answer to this question is required Delegate, manage, and monitor task completion Hands-on management of project tasks Project management software to track progress Solicit periodic feedback from stakeholders Negotiate project funding and timelines None of the above. 12 From the following list of qualitative and quantitative methods, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work: Answer to this question is required Survey development Qualitative interviews Statistical analysis ISO 9000/9001 Malcolm Baldridge Six sigma Focus groups None of the above 13 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience that employed strategic thinking skills. I have education, training, or experience where strategic thinking was employed. I have training and education that employed strategic thinking but have not used these skills on the job. I have experience, but no training or educational basis for the use of strategic thinking. 15 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 16 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 17 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 18 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 19 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 20 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 21 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 22 Which of the following best reflects your experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 23 I have experience editing documents written by others and can apply the following skills: Answer to this question is required Reading and understanding document standards and identifying areas where the document does not meet those standards. Reorganizing the content of a document for greater clarity. Checking for required reading level and offering suggestions to the writer. Identifying errors in grammar, spelling, punctuation, and numbering. Identifying errors in numbering, margins, indentation and style. Negotiating content changes with the writer. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a variety of databases to complete tasks such as: a project paper, report, or study; compile data or information needed to complete a project or program requirement; resolve a matter in dispute; or answer a question? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Select the response that BEST describes your experience interpreting and analyzing highly complex information to discern patterns, trends, and relationships and to draw conclusions by applying rules that involve many steps: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 5 Identify all of the following types of teams on which you have participated: Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary/ cross functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above 6 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 7 Select the response that BEST describes your experience handling multiple priorities and competing deadlines: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 8 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating policies and/or procedures via a formal written document: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have worked in partnership with subject matter experts and together we have performed this task. I have performed this task under the general supervision of a subject matter expert or supervisor. I have provided supervision and training to others so they can perform this task. 9 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 10 Which of the following project management tools / techniques do you prefer to use? Answer to this question is required Delegate, manage, and monitor task completion Hands-on management of project tasks Project management software to track progress Solicit periodic feedback from stakeholders Negotiate project funding and timelines None of the above. 11 From the following list of qualitative and quantitative methods, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work: Answer to this question is required Survey development Qualitative interviews Statistical analysis ISO 9000/9001 Malcolm Baldridge Six sigma Focus groups None of the above 12 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describes your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience that employed strategic thinking skills. I have education, training, or experience where strategic thinking was employed. I have training and education that employed strategic thinking but have not used these skills on the job. I have experience, but no training or educational basis for the use of strategic thinking. 14 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 15 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 16 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 17 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 18 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 19 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 20 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 21 Which of the following best reflects your experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 22 I have experience editing documents written by others and can apply the following skills: Answer to this question is required Reading and understanding document standards and identifying areas where the document does not meet those standards. Reorganizing the content of a document for greater clarity. Checking for required reading level and offering suggestions to the writer. Identifying errors in grammar, spelling, punctuation, and numbering. Identifying errors in numbering, margins, indentation and style. Negotiating content changes with the writer. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a variety of databases to complete tasks such as: a project paper, report, or study; compile data or information needed to complete a project or program requirement; resolve a matter in dispute; or answer a question? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Select the response that BEST describes your experience interpreting and analyzing highly complex information to discern patterns, trends, and relationships and to draw conclusions by applying rules that involve many steps: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 5 Identify all of the following types of teams on which you have participated: Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary/ cross functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above 6 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 7 Select the response that BEST describes your experience handling multiple priorities and competing deadlines: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 8 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating policies and/or procedures via a formal written document: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have worked in partnership with subject matter experts and together we have performed this task. I have performed this task under the general supervision of a subject matter expert or supervisor. I have provided supervision and training to others so they can perform this task. 9 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above 10 Which of the following project management tools / techniques do you prefer to use? Answer to this question is required Delegate, manage, and monitor task completion Hands-on management of project tasks Project management software to track progress Solicit periodic feedback from stakeholders Negotiate project funding and timelines None of the above. 11 From the following list of qualitative and quantitative methods, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work: Answer to this question is required Survey development Qualitative interviews Statistical analysis ISO 9000/9001 Malcolm Baldridge Six sigma Focus groups None of the above 12 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describes your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience that employed strategic thinking skills. I have education, training, or experience where strategic thinking was employed. I have training and education that employed strategic thinking but have not used these skills on the job. I have experience, but no training or educational basis for the use of strategic thinking. 14 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 15 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 16 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 17 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 18 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess the overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 19 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 20 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 21 Which of the following best reflects your experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 22 I have experience editing documents written by others and can apply the following skills: Answer to this question is required Reading and understanding document standards and identifying areas where the document does not meet those standards. Reorganizing the content of a document for greater clarity. Checking for required reading level and offering suggestions to the writer. Identifying errors in grammar, spelling, punctuation, and numbering. Identifying errors in numbering, margins, indentation and style. Negotiating content changes with the writer. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.