Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following congressional committees have you worked with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with the House and Senate Appropriation Committees or local government budget committees. I have worked with the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee or Senate Environmental and Public Works Committee or House Natural Resources Committee or local government environmental regulatory committees or agencies. I have worked with the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee or House Education and the Workforce Committee or local government educational committees. I have worked with the Senate Agriculture Committee or House Agriculture Committee or local government committee related to agricultural policy. I have worked with the Senate Judiciary Committee or House Judiciary Committee or local government committee. I have worked with the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee or House Homeland Security Committee or similar local government committee or agency. I have worked with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee or House Foreign Affairs Committee. I have worked with other congressional committees, state government, or local government. I have no experience working with congressional committees or other similar committees. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience initiating and managing relationships with key Members of Congress and congressional staff or key local members of government or other key policymakers&nbsp; in order to execute strategies with respect to legislatives initiative and programs? (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to communicate the positions and goals of a federal agency or local government or other appropriate? Answer to this question is required I have not performed any of the tasks above. I have reviewed and edited written materials for policymakers or congressional hearings. I have assisted with developing briefing materials for policymakers or for congressional hearings. I have had experience leading the drafting of clear, effective, and persuasive testimony, briefing materials and legislative proposals for policymakers or congressional hearings. Writing clear, effective, and persuasive testimony, briefing materials, and legislative proposals for policymakers or congressional hearings has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to respond in writing directly to routine inquiries or requests for information? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or training in responding directly to routine inquiries or requests for information. I have completed training in responding directly to routine inquiries or requests for information, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have responded directly to routine inquiries or requests for information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have responded directly to routine inquiries or requests for information as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have responded directly to routine inquiries or requests for information as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Select all of the audiences to which you have made a presentation or formal briefing. Answer to this question is required Employees in my immediate unit or office. Employees outside my immediate unit or office, but in my agency or organization. Management officials in my direct reporting line of authority. Management officials from outside my immediate unit or office, but in the same agency or organization. High level officials within and outside my organization. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your ability to communicate orally to inquiries or requests for information? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in orally responding to inquiries or requests for information. I have orally responded to inquiries or requests for information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have responded orally to inquiries or requests for information as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have responded orally to inquiries or requests for information as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely and I have trained others, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following statements describe your interpersonal communication experience with U.S. Senate and House of Representative members and staff or local members of government or other appropriate policymaker? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have any of the experience listed above. I have initiated and maintained contact with key Members of Congress and congressional staff or local members of government or other appropriate policymaker in order to execute legislative strategies. I have independently explained complex legislative information to key Members of Congress and congressional staff or local policymaker of government or other appropriate members. I have worked as a member of a team to represent a federal agency or local government or organization at House and Senate congressional briefings, meetings, or conferences. 9 Which of the following describes your collaborative work with agencies and/or congressional committees or offices? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not worked collaboratively with agencies or local government or congressional committees on programs, policies, or legislation. I have worked collaboratively with agencies or local government or congressional committees on scientific programs, policies, or legislation. I have worked collaboratively with agencies or local government or congressional committees on education and workforce programs, policies, or legislation. I have worked collaboratively with agencies or local government or congressional committees on programs, policies, or legislation relating to museums, monuments, or cultural resources. I have worked collaboratively with agencies or local government or congressional committees on programs, policies, or legislation relating to rural issues. I have worked collaboratively with agencies or local government or congressional committees on other programs, policies, or legislation.. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.