Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. I have a degree in auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. OR B. I have a combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 4.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Audit Manager communicates with others to plan and coordinate evaluations, to provide and conduct oral interviews, to develop policy, to resolve problems and present oral briefings of results of evaluations to top agency officials. Contacts include institution staff, department heads and executive level staff, regional and Central Office administrators. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions from the institution or regional staff; and/or I have responded to inmate complaints; and/or I have negotiated local polices/procedures with Union officials; and/or I have assisted in tours of institutions. I have given employees performance reviews; and/or I have provided guidance to subordinates on processing work; and/or I have referred telephone inquiries to the appropriate correctional sources; and/or I have conducted town hall meetings. I have given briefings to upper management; and/or I have guided workgroups in addressing or resolving a topic/issue; and/or I have given presentations and responded to questions; and/or I have given press conferences; and/or I have coordinated correctional facility tours and open houses; and/or I have given presentations at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings. None of the above. 6 The Audit Manager writes and/or oversees the preparation of reports, summaries, position papers, and memorandums on evaluations of agency programs and operations. Generally tentative findings are derived independently but are reviewed for conformance with policy, adequacy of support for any suggestions or recommendations made, and effectiveness of presentation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written articles published in a corrections publication or professional journal; and/or I have developed national policy or institution supplements that were adopted for use by the agency or institution; and/or I have prepared documents to be used in administrative court hearings; and/or I have served as editor of staff newspaper/bulletin. I have written articles for the institution or Central Office branch newsletter; and/or I have drafted contingency plans/post orders; and/or I have participated in group preparation of reports by writing part of the reports and reviewing and editing other team members’ submissions; and/or I have prepared an after-action report. I have reviewed newsletter articles, routing reports, correspondence, or memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have written memorandums for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates for clarity, grammar and content. None of the above. 7 The Audit Manager audits the audit process to ensure the audit team followed the appropriate audit guidelines or provided sufficient explanation when team was not able to follow all standards. The primary purpose of the audits is to determine if the agency has effective and efficient internal controls in place to achieve the Federal Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; objectives and desired outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed comprehensive audit plans and programs based on the scope of the audit, including risk assessments and resource allocation; and/or I have conducted risk assessments that identified and evaluated risks related to financial reporting, internal controls or compliance with regulations; and/or I have assisted with managing audit teams (i.e., assigned tasks, provided guidance or reviewed work); and/or I have reviewed/evaluated the accuracy and completeness of audit workpapers and documentation prepared by audit staff. I have managed complex projects, specified the scope, objectives and outcomes; and/or I have performed in the capacity of a leader, managing cross-functional audit teams or steered strategic audit initiatives; and/or I have identified and addressed technical challenges related to complex regulatory requirements or sophisticated audit methodologies; and/or I have independently lead audit teams through challenging audits. I have lead audit projects ensuring team compliance with audit standards; and/or I have identified and analyzed audit findings in difficult situations; and/or I have drawn meaningful conclusions from data and provided practical recommendations. None of the above. 8 The Audit Manager is responsible for leading the Federal Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; audit teams and to conduct compliance and process audits to ensure the agencies internal controls are effective and efficient. He/she leads the audit team in performing risk assessments of objectives, development of testing plans and documenting the information in the audit plan. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a taskforce charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request. I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office; and/or I have evaluated internal controls by identifying weaknesses and recommended preliminary improvements. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have researched current and historical data to develop alternatives or recommendations to improve current programs. None of the above. 9 The Audit Manager has thorough knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals of the Federal Bureau of Prisons in order to effectively carry out primary responsibilities of directing and evaluating operating programs in institutions, as well as Central Office and regional offices. He/she evaluates the results of audit findings and management responses to recommendations; evaluates quality assurance reviews to identify potential improvements in operations; identifies staff development needs and prepares and presents training to improve staff performance in conformance with professional auditing standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a visual search of inmates’ work or living area of contraband; and/or I have participated in fog or escape patrol; and/or I have participated in a shakedown of inmates; and/or I have participated in investigations of inmate complaints and made recommendations for disposition. I have served on correctional institution committees to formulate institution policy; and/or I have identified violations of the law or regulations made by individuals in a prison facility and took appropriate corrective action; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have chaired program/operational reviews. I have participated in program/operational reviews; and/or I have applied knowledge of entered and retrieved information from a personal computer; and/or I have applied knowledge in data researched; and/or I have reviewed data and various programs and made recommendations; and/or I have participated as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment. None of the above. 10 The Audit Manager reviews administrative procedures for compliance with Federal Bureau of Prisons regulations and policies relating to organization procedures and internal control. He/she manages the activities of staff auditors, ensuring the collection, analysis, interpretation, and documentation of information is sufficient to support audit results through reviewing and approving audit programs, priorities, scope, and methodologies for accomplishment of audit objectives; oversees audit activities to ensure all audit program steps are completed as planned; and monitors performance of audit activities to ensure accuracy of results in conformance with professional auditing standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated project timelines, resources and deliverables; and/or I have developed and managed comprehensive audit plans, that included specific timelines, resource requirements, and deliverables tailored to the scope of an audit; and/or I have assigned and managed resources (i.e., personnel and tools) to maximize efficiency and effectiveness throughout the audit process; and/or I have managed project risks, identified, assessed, and mitigated risks associated with the project; and/or I have developed contingency plans to address potential challenges and ensured project success; and/or I have mentored team members, provided guidance and support to junior team members, shared knowledge, fostering their development to enhance overall performance. I have contributed to the successful completion of audit projects, in a supporting capacity; and/or I have assisted in the review of audit documentation or verified adherence to audit standards; and/or I have worked collaboratively with team members and contributed to a positive team dynamic; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of audit reports or other documentation. I have managed multiple projects simultaneously, ensuring that all audits were completed timely, within scope, and on budget; and/or I have demonstrated adaptive planning pertaining to resource allocation or risk management, in response to changing priorities within the audited entity; and/or I have reviewed and approved audit programs ensuring they aligned with Bureau of Prisons regulations and internal control requirements; and/or I have ensured audit teams adhered to regulations and effectively communicated changes in policies or procedures; and/or I have managed and mentored a team of auditors, emphasizing on the development of staff competencies, setting clear objectives, and provided constructive feedback; and/or I have negotiated resolution of high stake conflicts. None of the above. 11 The Audit Manager must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career-enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee's job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring programs; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product or increased morale. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).