Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 2 Please select the responses that describe your experience training workers under your supervision. Answer to this question is required Identified needed training for individual employees Provided hands-on, on-the-job training for employees Scheduled employees to attend classroom based training Assigned developmental work to employees to strengthen skills Requested funding for employee training None of the above 3 What supervisory tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interviewed job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Acted on disciplinary matters. Made recommendations for employee personnel action requests. Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and identified personal protective equipment. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience soldering and/or brazing? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Have you soldered waste pipes or water pipes? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 Choose the statements that demonstrate your knowledge and ability regarding pipefitting layout and measurement. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of layout and pattern development by parallel line, radial line, and triangulation enabling more difficult layout and pattern work. Knowledge of shop mathematics enabling layout angles, arcs, and circles in performing work such as calculating and aligning pipes, joints, and valves; and installing proper braces and supports to control movement and vibration. Planned and laid out routing, placement, pitch, incline, and elevation of piping systems and equipment allowing for expansion and contracting. Selected the proper methods and planned work sequences for repairing and installing piping sections or to plan and layout plumbing work such as routing, placement, slant, and slope of utility, supply, and disposal systems for the distribution of sewage, water, oil, gas, and compressed air. None of the above. 7 Which pipefitting or plumbing tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determining the order to layout the piping Determining what goes in the line(s) Running the supply line Determining when to put a union valve in Determining the proper reducer to put in Soldering pipe connections Repairing pipes with leaks in them Changing broken control valves None of the above 8 Which outcomes have you experienced because of your trouble shooting skills? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency or productivity The identification of inconsistent procedures among staff (i.e., how installation, maintenance, repair work was performed) The implementation of a new procedure A cost-savings Satisfied customers Correcting or avoiding an unsafe or hazardous situation None of the above 9 Select the statement that best describes your ability to locate the cause of problems in pipefitting systems and equipment. Answer to this question is required Isolated and repaired unusual operational failures and malfunctions when documentation and operation knowledge are not available. Traced and located the cause of malfunctions; identified the type and extent of repairs needed; performed tests of piping systems and supporting or controlling devices; and resolved the problem. Skilled in the use of precision tools such as micrometers, feeler gauges, calipers, torque wrenches, brazing equipment, and pipe bending machines. Detected malfunctions in most low and high-pressure piping systems and equipment; determined corrective measures; and make repairs. Used tools and equipment such as dividers, grinders, reamers, pipe wrenches, hand and power pipe threaders and cutters, flanges, sliding squares, plumb bobs, mercury gauges, and hydrostatic testing equipment. Located and stopped leaks by replacing washers in fixtures; located and cleared obstructions in piping by cleaning and replacing traps and nozzles; and removed and placed worn or broken bolts, nuts, and gaskets in flange connections. None of the above. 10 From the list below, select all of the tools and equipment you used in performing pipefitting duties. Answer to this question is required Hold-down clamp Internal flange alignment tool Flange alignment pins Hydraulic flange spreader Mechanical flange spreader Quality control welder’s gauges Framing squares Pipefitter’s square Protractors Spacing wedges Pipe wrap Centering head None of the above 11 Which pipefitting-related tools or equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Hand-held snake / drain cleaning machine Hand snake / auger Rooter machines Submersible pumps SeeSnake / recordable sewer pipe camera Carbon dioxide / electric freeze kits T-drill Voltmeter None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.