Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 In addition to the basic requirements, applicants must meet the following specialized experience and/or directly related education as explained below. Please select the response that best demonstrates that you meet the additional qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have completed at least 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have a combination of specialized experience and education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. (You must submit a copy of your college transcript at the time of selection to verify that you meet the educational requirements.) I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience which includes at least 3 &nbsp;of the following: (1) Developing construction drawings and design criteria for civil engineering projects and managing projects from the preliminary planning stage through the design and construction phases; (2) Reviewing design documents, including statements of work, drawings, specifications and calculations to identify design deficiencies and areas for concern, and recommending solutions to resolve design and construction deficiencies and mitigate risks; (3) Performing project management and oversight of contractor performance to ensure compliance with organizational standards and ensuring all requirements are met; (4) Providing technical civil engineering guidance on new and existing construction and renovation projects (i.e., buildings, retaining walls, roads and pedestrian paths, tunnels, pipelines, water and sewerage systems, storm water management, waste disposal units, and gas and electrical services); and (5) Serving as Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on engineering-related projects. 2 Select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education&nbsp;developing and/or modifying civil engineering plans and designs for new construction projects. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 3 I have recommended design modifications as necessary to resolve project-related issues. Answer to this question is required True False Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience which includes at least &nbsp;4 &nbsp;of the following: (1) Developing construction drawings and design criteria for civil engineering projects and managing projects from the preliminary planning stage through the design and construction phases; (2) Reviewing design documents, including statements of work, drawings, specifications and calculations to identify design deficiencies and areas for concern, and recommending solutions to resolve design and construction deficiencies and mitigate risks; (3) Performing project management and oversight of contractor performance to ensure compliance with organizational standards and ensuring all requirements are met; (4) Providing technical civil engineering guidance on new and existing construction and renovation projects (i.e., buildings, retaining walls, roads and pedestrian paths, tunnels, pipelines, water and sewerage systems, storm water management, waste disposal units, and gas and electrical services); and (5) Serving as Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on engineering-related projects. 2 From the list below, select the activities that you have performed in support of civil engineering projects: Answer to this question is required Developed and reviewed statements of work for construction projects and professional design services Developed plans and specifications in coordination with various disciplines Developed documentation or blueprints Performed design calculations and analysis Performed budget formulation Managed contract scope and specifications Prepared final working drawings and specifications Conduct technical field surveys and inspections to determine improvements in facilities. Performed construction inspections and coordination Documented findings and recommendations for construction and design Provided preventive maintenance requirements to maintain safe and adequate building structure, service equipment, and systems. None of the above 3 Have you analyzed civil engineering projects and issued a change order to resolve a problem? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience which includes all of the following: (1) Developing construction drawings and design criteria for civil engineering projects and managing projects from the preliminary planning stage through the design and construction phases; (2) Reviewing design documents, including statements of work, drawings, specifications and calculations to identify design deficiencies and areas for concern, and recommending solutions to resolve design and construction deficiencies and mitigate risks; (3) Performing project management and oversight of contractor performance to ensure compliance with organizational standards and ensuring all requirements are met; (4) Providing technical civil engineering guidance on new and existing construction and renovation projects (i.e., buildings, retaining walls, roads and pedestrian paths, tunnels, pipelines, water and sewerage systems, storm water management, waste disposal units, and gas and electrical services); and (5) Serving as Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on engineering-related projects. 2 From the list below, select the activities that you have performed in support of civil engineering projects: Answer to this question is required Developed and reviewed statements of work for construction projects and professional design services Developed plans and specifications in coordination with various disciplines Developed documentation or blueprints Performed design calculations and analysis Performed budget formulation Managed contract scope and specifications Prepared final working drawings and specifications Conduct technical field surveys and inspections to determine improvements in facilities. Performed construction inspections and coordination Documented findings and recommendations for construction and design Provided preventive maintenance requirements to maintain safe and adequate building structure, service equipment, and systems. None of the above 3 Have you analyzed civil engineering projects and issued a change order to resolve a problem? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Which certifications or registrations do you hold? Answer to this question is required Professional Engineering (PE) Licensed Structural Engineer (SE) Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) Certified Construction Manager (CCM) Registered Architect (RA) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Certification None of the Above 3 Do you have experience managing projects supporting construction and maintenance of building structures and facilities, such as roads, railroads, tunnels, channels, dams, irrigation projects, pedestrian ways, pipelines, power plants, water and sewage systems, storm water management, waste disposal units and gas and electrical service? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 In which stages of design have you participated in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents None of the above 5 In which of the following disciplines do you have experience in design development, coordination, and/or review? Answer to this question is required Architectural Civil Mechanical Electrical Structural Plumbing Hazmat Fire Protection Industrial Chemical None of the above 6 Select the topics on which you have independently researched or performed analyses as part of the pre-design stage. Answer to this question is required Site analysis / selection Existing building condition assessment (e.g., functional, structural, code issues) Construction cost estimating Facility and infrastructure analysis Programming objectives (i.e., client needs, project goals) Civil engineering systems None of the above 7 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Developed structural design calculations. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop a structural design. Used civil engineering design software. Used 3D modeling to establish site grading. Completed calculations to establish site storm water management. Completed calculations for site drainage. Completed calculations for site or development sewage systems. Evaluate calculations for foundations and/or earth support systems. Provided structural design review comments. Performed site inspections to confirm compliance with construction documents. Performed site inspections to confirm that existing building conditions match existing record drawings. Performed structural condition assessments of existing structures. Used Building Information Modeling (BIM) software independently to develop a structural design. Sheeting and shoring design for site, building or utility excavations. None of the above. 8 I have developed a design for a historically significant monumental building. Answer to this question is required True False 9 Select the historically significant facilities for which you have created designs. Answer to this question is required Museums Monuments or sculptures Churches or cathedrals Residential buildings Libraries Government facilities None of the above 10 Which design activities have you performed for a historically significant monumental building? Answer to this question is required Developed technical specifications for structural alterations. Researched antiquated structural systems. Analyzed load capacities of unique structures. Developed general provisions (e.g., client needs, restrictions, and limitations). Reviewed cost estimates associated with the structural design. Performed quality control checks on structural calculations. None of the above. 11 I have designed structures in the following material systems: Answer to this question is required Reinforced concrete Pre-stressed concrete Stormwater management system Site or development drainage system Site or development sewage system Roadway system Urban development Land development meeting ADA requirements Heavy timber or light wood Membrane structures Temporary systems, excavation support, scaffolding, shoring, and formwork None of the above 12 Which computer aided drafting (CAD) software or other software are you proficient with and have used to develop designs? Answer to this question is required AutoCAD AutoCAD Civil 3D SAP 2000 RISA-3D MicroStation (2D) Building Information Modeling (BIM) systems (e.g., Revit) None of the above 13 Select the documents you have reviewed to perform preliminary design research and analysis. Answer to this question is required Geotechnical reports Hydrology studies Land surveys (e.g., boundaries, topography, and utilities) Existing building analysis reports Existing building record drawing survey Surveys of existing hazardous materials Site analysis drawings Comparative site analysis reports Seismic evaluation/retrofit design for existing buildings None of the above 14 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations Developed and managed a project budget None of the above 15 Do you have experience serving as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for facilities management programs and activities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which response best describes your highest level of experience administering contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience administering contracts. I have education or training related to administering contracts, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team to administer contracts. I have been independently administered contracts as a COTR. 17 Which activities have you performed to generate solutions to a problem? Answer to this question is required Conferred with subject matter experts Analyzed all aspects of the problem Reviewed similar issues or cases Reviewed organizational past practices Researched industry best practices Gathered information from colleagues Researched laws, regulations, and policies None of the above 18 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required I have written summaries or oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail for documentation purposes) I have written reports for completed projects I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products None of the above 19 Select the documents you have independently written. Answer to this question is required Forensic analysis reports Structural assessments Citation response plans Procurement documents (e.g., plans, evaluation board selection reports) Technical specifications Cost-benefit studies White paper Slide content (e.g., PowerPoint presentations) Articles in research, professional journals, or publications Technical and non-technical report versions on the same issue Scopes of Work or Task Orders Business correspondence (e.g., letters, e-mails) None of the above 20 To which audiences have you presented information in a professional setting, conference or tradeshow? Answer to this question is required Peers Supervisors Subordinates External clients Oversight committees International conferences and trade shows National conferences and trade shows None of the above 21 I have explained technical information to non-technical audiences in a way that increased their understanding of the topic or issue. Answer to this question is required True False 22 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.