Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Legislative Affairs Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the staff of Members of Congress, the public and high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with members of Congress or their staff and appropriately communicated the position of the agency/organization on a policy matter; and/or I have met with mid-level administrators from a department within the federal government or a state government and communicated the position of the agency/organization on an issue for the agency or the department; and/or I have provided follow-up policy information to executive level official. I have prepared and presented statements or comments to the news media; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to executive staff members; and/or I have briefed executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs or procedures; and/or I have given a speech at a civic or community activity as a representative of the agency; and/or I have communicated sensitive information on inmates with specific representatives of other agencies (i.e., U.S. Marshal Service, U.S. Attorneys, and Federal Judges) as required. I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have briefed Executive Staff at regional or agency level on inmate case information; and/or I have provided formal training to management on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 5 The Legislative Affairs Specialist prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, and briefing papers on highly sensitive and/or technical topics. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include Congress and State Legislatures, high level agency officials, and staff of other government and non-governmental agencies involved in criminal justice activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by peers; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have developed national training initiatives; and/or I have developed a standard operating manual/procedure guide which explained laws, regulations, etc., in layman’s terms; and/or I have collaborated with others on a position paper that justified decisions made by the agency/organization. I have composed part of a written statement (Congressional testimony) for the appearance of an agency/organization official as a witness at a Congressional hearing addressing an agency/organization policy or program(s); and/or I have composed an issue paper, “white paper,” or other similar document that provided a summary and analysis of an important agency/organization policy or position; and/or I have reviewed and edited documents that communicated the policy, program(s), or position(s), of an agency/organization to mid-level administrators within government agencies. I have prepared draft articles for internal newsletters; and/or I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a program/operational review or comparable external/internal audit. None of the above. 6 The Legislative Affairs Specialist analyzes a variety of information and supplements creditable information from a variety of sources. He/she is required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy, recommending changes or updates as necessary; and/or I have conducted a portion of a research project which involved data collection from a variety of sources and presented suggestions for future research. I have reviewed miscellaneous appeal cases which have not been resolved at a lower level and recommended response actions; and/or I have used SENTRY or other available automated system to ascertain statistical data to include in a proposal/justification for critical additional funding; and/or I have prepared responses to inmate grievances or congressional inquiries based on analysis of all investigative information, trends, and data collected. I have prepared documents or provided oral presentations that synthesized such information into concise summaries and provided recommendations to mid-level agency/organization managers; and/or I have composed letters, issue papers, or similar documents that involved the review, analysis, and summarization of agency/organization policies; and/or I have completed project that involved the collection, review, and analysis of voluminous data and information. None of the above. 7 The Legislative Affairs Specialist must possess extensive knowledge of the organization, operations and functions of the Bureau of Prisons in order to appropriately serve as an agency spokesperson with Congress and State Legislatures. He/she must be able to evaluate, and disseminate critical information relative to the Bureau of Prisons programs, policies and/or plans. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used knowledge of federal or state criminal justice systems to identify constituencies affected by a legislative proposal and helped develop communications of information to these entities; and/or I have coordinated the efforts of mid-level agency managers to summarized a new law or legislative proposal and its effect on federal, state, or local corrections and criminal justice systems in broad terms; and/or I have prepared a summary of the impact of legislation, including an assessment of its effect on federal, state, or local corrections and criminal justice systems. I have provided executive staff-level advice and recommendations for policy, program, or practices to be implemented within the field; and/or I have identified a need and established a training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have participated on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution; and/or I have performed critical duties during the American Correctional Association accreditation process. I have provided Branch Chief-level advice and recommendations for policy, program, or practices to be implemented within the field; and/or I have provided institution oversight as the institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have participated in program or operational review; and/or I have participated as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. None of the above. 8 The Legislative Affairs Specialist must appropriately respond to positive, as well as negative issues, impacting the Bureau of Prisons. He/she must possess the ability to encourage, defend or enlighten targeted audiences on the position of the Bureau. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess comprehensive knowledge of agency policy and procedures regarding the release and dissemination of information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided general information to congressional staff; and/or I have gathered/organized items of interest for supervisory consideration; and/or I have provided general information to the public at career fairs, explaining the benefits of employment. I have responded to important and complicated correctional inquiries with staff from the office of Members of Congress in a professional and meaningful manner; and/or I have provided timely and accurate information to an agency/organization public information officer for use in his/her response to news media sources or in public forums; and/or I have responded to officials from other government agencies requesting information about the Bureau of Prisons/component policies, programs, services, and operations as it relates to federal laws or legislation. I have aided in preparing a response to the media on a major issue; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information Requests; and/or I have provided information on inmates housed in the Bureau of Prisons to the public or congressional staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).