Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience performing the work of a wood crafter without more than normal supervision.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have experience working independently and with minimal supervision on commercial metal door and hardware? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a wood crafter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to wood crafting but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform wood crafting activities. I have independently performed wood crafting activities. None of the above. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who perform wood crafter activities, such as creating, altering, installing, and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical wood crafting work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 5 Which of the following door hardware do you have experience installing independently? Answer to this question is required Cylindrical and mortise lock sets Panic exit device Hydraulic door closer Power assisted door opener None of the above 6 Select the items from the following list that you have experience installing. Answer to this question is required Countertops Doors (metal and wood) Windows Paneling Door hardware Baseboards Molding / Trim Bookcases / Wall units / Cabinets Wood flooring Studs (metal and wood) Drywall Acoustic ceilings None of the above 7 What skills do you use to curve and shape wood surfaces? Answer to this question is required Laminating Veneering Plastic Overlaying Steam Bending Grain Matching None of the Above 8 Which of the following items have you installed? Answer to this question is required Studs (metal and wood) Doors Door Hardware Bookcases/Wall Units/Cabinets Baseboards Acoustic Ceilings None of the above 9 Select the tools you have used to perform precise, intricate carpentry work. Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill Presses Sanders Mortisers Dado Blades Engravers None of the Above 10 Which items have you read and interpreted in order to fabricate and/or install wood work? Answer to this question is required Written instructions from others (e.g., customer, supervisor) Blueprints Layout drawings and sketches Work orders Specification lists Safety information Manufacturer instructions None of the above 11 What types of wood products have you used? Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes None of the above 12 Select the types of Computerized Numerical Control (CNC) software you have programmed to operate computerized tools and equipment (e.g., shaper, router). Answer to this question is required AlphaCam Cabinet Vision Software based on G-Code (standardized programming language) TurboCad Deluxe EnRoute Gravostyle None of the above 13 Select the tools and equipment with Computer Numerical Control (CNC) technology you have independently operated to perform wood craft work. Answer to this question is required Table saw Shaper Router Dowling machine Lathe Laser engraving machine None of the above 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.