Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 The Senior Officer Specialist must remain calm and act quickly in emergency situations, handle aggressive inmates, and act to prevent life threatening situations, such as riots, hostage dilemmas, escapes, and medical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evacuated inmates due to mechanical failures in a housing unit; and/or I have notified Health Services that an inmate had sustained a minor injury; and/or I have noticed a discrepancy in the posted picture file and made appropriate correction. I have ensured proper inmate movement was adhered to by modifying movement schedules to adhere to safety precautions; and/or I have, during an institution lock-down escorted inmates for interviews; and/or I have reported suspicious inmate behavior. I have assisted in restraining a combative inmate who appeared to be in distress; and/or I have used proper procedures and called for assistance in stopping a fight between two inmates; and/or I have followed established guidelines during an institution lock-down; and/or I have coordinated a movement during a modified institution lock-down. None of the above. 3.2 The Senior Officer Specialist must write disciplinary reports, work orders, internal memoranda&rsquo;s and ensure proper documentation is completed while working high profile posts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared work orders and disciplinary reports; and/or I have provided written recommendations/suggestions that were used in improving the operation of the institution; and/or I have prepared disciplinary reports and/or supporting memorandum that resulted in a sustained action. I have prepared inmate performance pay forms; and/or I have prepared supply requisitions forms; and/or I have completed inmate property inventories. I have provided detailed information of events in the logbook for the next officer to reference; and/or I have prepared articles for institution newsletter; and/or I have prepared memorandums describing the supply schedule in a housing unit. None of the above. 3.3 The Senior Officer Specialist must be able to express ideas clearly and concisely to individuals and or groups in both stressful and non-stressful situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided detailed instructions to inmates on how to complete tasks; and/or I have screened incoming calls using proper locator center procedures; and/or I have clarified policy or procedures to a newly incarcerated inmate. I have interviewed inmates after a physical altercation; and/or I have presented information on safety of the institution during a conference call; and/or I have presented safety lectures or orientations to new inmates; and/or I have informed unit team staff regarding the work or personal habits of inmates. I have spoken to co-workers during an institution recall or event; and/or I have provided general information to institution visitors; and/or I have responded to basic inquiries received from inmates/staff. None of the above. 3.4 The Senior Officer Specialist must recognize potentially dangerous situations such as riots, assaults, and escapes. He/she must react appropriately by keeping officials informed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported overt signs of aggression and/or unrest; and/or I have, based on observation, notified medical/psychology regarding uncommon behavior of an inmate/client/resident; and/or I have appropriately logged information into the post sensitive logbook. I have accurately reported unusual activities of inmates listed in the high-profile listing; and/or I have identified temperament and mood of inmate population during institution lock-down and reported to appropriate supervisor; and/or I have, upon suspicion, searched an inmate’s living area, found contraband, and reported it accordingly. I have called for medical assistance for someone who appeared ill; and/or I have notified Psychology Services of a possible suicidal inmate after observing him/her giving personal items to others; and/or I have, upon observation, initiated a physical search of a suspicious inmate. None of the above. 3.5 The Senior Officer Specialist must lead, train, and advise other staff and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recruited inmates to work on a detail; and/or I have enforced policy/procedures to inmates and visitors; and/or I have provided guidance to staff during institutional searches; and/or I have considered other team members ideas that were discussed with the supervisor. I have convinced inmates to work under unusual/adverse working conditions (i.e., snow removal, hurricane preparation); and/or I have supervised arts and crafts or equivalent activity in a state/local/private mental health facility; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy (bed book counts, etc.). I have trained less experienced staff how to complete yard moves, cell searches, key, and radio procedures; and/or I have used positive reinforcement to gain the cooperation of others; and/or I have motivated inmates with recommendations to Unit staff for conducting extra duties; and/or I have worked with other members of the team to accomplish the goal/mission as assigned by the supervisor. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-07 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-08 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 The Senior Officer Specialist must remain calm and act quickly in emergency situations, handle aggressive inmates, and act to prevent life threatening situations, such as riots, hostage dilemmas, escapes, and medical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured proper inmate movement was adhered to by modifying movement schedules to adhere to safety precautions; and/or I have, during an institution lock-down, escorted inmates for interviews; and/or I have reported suspicious inmate behavior. I have assisted in restraining a combative inmate who appeared to be in distress; and/or I have used proper procedures and called for assistance in stopping a fight between two inmates; and/or I have followed established guidelines during an institution lock-down; and/or I have coordinated a movement during a modified institution lock-down. I have taken corrective action to contain an incident by securing the area before an altercation could take place; and/or I have intervened to prevent a fight between inmates; and/or I have coordinated efforts to move a critically injured inmate from a housing unit to medical services/outside hospital; and/or I have coordinated inmate movement; and/or I have, during a pat search, retrieved contraband from a disruptive inmate; and/or I have responded during an emergency situation and directed guidance to responding staff. None of the above. 3.2 The Senior Officer Specialist must write disciplinary reports, work orders, internal memoranda&rsquo;s and ensure proper documentation is completed while working high profile posts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have, while working a critical post, ensured all paperwork was completed and accurate (i.e., specific forms, count procedures and slips); and/or I have worked as the rear gate or tool room officer and ensured all required documentation was completed and reported any discrepancies to the appropriate supervisor. I have provided detailed information of events in the logbook for the next officer to reference; and/or I have prepared articles for institution newsletter; and/or I have prepared memorandums describing the supply schedule in a housing unit. I have prepared work orders and disciplinary reports; and/or I have provided written recommendations/suggestions that were used in improving the operation of the institution; and/or I have prepared disciplinary report and/or supporting memorandum that resulted in a sustained action. I have ensured all logs are properly updated with information pertaining to all facets of correctional services; and/or I have identified security weakness and provided recommendations for corrective action that were implemented; and/or I have worked the Restrictive Housing Unit as the Officer in Charge (OIC) and ensured all required log information was annotated correctly and accurately; and/or I have prepared proper paperwork for scheduled meetings for the Restrictive Housing Unit. None of the above. 3.3 The Senior Officer Specialist must be able to express ideas clearly and concisely to individuals and or groups in both stressful and non-stressful situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interviewed inmates after a physical altercation; and/or I have presented information on safety of the institution during a conference call; and/or I have presented safety lectures or orientations to new inmates; and/or I have informed unit team staff regarding the work or personal habits of inmates. I have enforced institution rules by explaining policy to other officers; and/or I have conducted admission and orientation for newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have convinced violent inmates to remain calm; and/or I have given instructions or relayed information to staff during an institutional emergency; and/or I have trained subordinate officers in day to day correctional activities. I have provided detailed instructions to inmates on how to complete tasks; and/or I have screened incoming calls using proper locator center procedures; and/or I have clarified policy or procedures to a newly incarcerated inmate. I have directed and organized a mass area search and/or targeted searches in order to remove contraband; and/or I have organized or assisted with the completion of mock/training exercises to respond effectively to emergency situations; and/or I have taught classes during Introduction to Correctional Techniques, Phase I or Annual Training. None of the above. 3.4 The Senior Officer Specialist must recognize potentially dangerous situations such as riots, assaults, and escapes. He/she must react appropriately by keeping officials informed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported signs of a food strike or tips from inmates, which resulted in the institution’s ability to implement preventative measures; and/or I have identified and reported possible escape attempt and appropriately secured the area; and/or I have found and reported signs of windows or bars being cut to facilitate an escape; and/or I have observed inmates entering a housing unit to which he/she was not assigned and took corrective action. I have accurately reported unusual activities of inmates listed in the high-profile listing; and/or I have identified temperament and mood of inmate population during institution lock-down and reported to appropriate supervisor; and/or I have, upon suspicion, searched an inmate’s living area, found contraband, and reported it accordingly. I have called for medical assistance for someone who appeared ill; and/or I have notified Psychology Services of a possible suicidal inmate after observing him/her giving personal items to others; and/or I have, upon observation, initiated a physical search of a suspicious inmate. I have observed inmate interactions to identify the leaders of disruptive groups in order to isolate them from the general population; and/or I have recommended an inmate be placed in protective custody after observing he/she may have been assaulted; and/or I have recognized when inmates appear to be under the influence of intoxicants. None of the above. 3.5 The Senior Officer Specialist must lead, train, and advise other staff and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained less experienced staff how to complete yard moves, cell searches, key, and radio procedures; and/or I have used positive reinforcement to gain the cooperation of others; and/or I have motivated inmates with recommendations to Unit staff for conducting extra duties; and/or I have worked with other members of the team to accomplish the goal/mission as assigned by the supervisor. I have, on a regular basis, trained and guided other officers to achieve higher standards of performance by properly training them in all guidelines for inmate monitoring techniques; and/or I have provided guidance to peers on proper count procedures and census checks to ensure accuracy; and/or I have coordinated a mass shakedown during an institutional emergency and motivated others; and/or I have provided information, experience, and knowledge to individuals/groups; and/or I have organized impromptu training sessions in order to develop staffs knowledge and skill sets while instilling greater motivation to enhance job performance. I have recruited inmates to work on a detail; and/or I have enforced policy/procedures to inmates and visitors; and/or I have provided guidance to staff during institutional searches; and/or I have considered other team members ideas that were discussed with the supervisor. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).