Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of general experience or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Information Receptionist receives all visitors and telephone calls. He/she aids by answering non-technical questions and provides explanations on other issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a training course in public speaking; and/or I have assisted visitors and callers with requests for directions; and/or I have helped visitors complete forms. I have greeted visitors; and/or I have answered telephone calls; and/or I have screened visitors and callers; and/or I have taken messages for personnel who could not be reached. I have responded to inquiries on general issues related to the institution; and/or I have provided visitor schedules to callers/visitors/attorneys; and/or I have answered and transferred telephone calls to other staff; and/or I have notified the proper official that a visitor is waiting. None of the above. 3 The Information Receptionist assists in maintaining the smooth operation of a facility entrance by assuring such functions as supplies, inventory, messages, rosters, and equipment are functional, up-to-date, and efficiently maintained. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized visitor and other receptionist related files; and/or I have completed census count slip; and/or I have scheduled classrooms/meetings for use by staff as directed; and/or I have maintained an updated inmate roster. I have picked up supplies from the warehouse; and/or I have sorted mail; and/or I have processed visitors, including any paperwork. I have sorted, and distributed messages; and/or I have ordered supplies in a timely manner; and/or I have filed documents accurately; and/or I have requested documents to be printed; and/or I have arranged video teleconferences; and/or I have verified present inventory as requested. None of the above. 4 The Information Receptionist must be able to interpret policy and guidelines concerning such complex issues as the Freedom of Information Act. He/she may also interpret policy concerning WITSEC and CIMS cases, security, and contraband regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied policies related to the Freedom of Information Act; and/or I have answered questions referencing routine institution supplements; and/or I have explained policies and procedures to visitors and others; and/or I have issued identification cards to visitors. I have used reference materials with the assistance of the supervisor; and/or I have applied supervisor’s instructions to daily activities; and/or I have provided correct phone extension to callers. I have ensured all visitors were properly screened through a metal detector; and/or I have ensured all packages were x-rayed; and/or I have answered inquiries on the procedures for applying for a job; and/or I have utilized an institution/company policy/operating statement to determine if an item was admissible; and/or I have explained basic visiting procedures to visitors. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).