Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your highest level of education. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelors degree or higher. I have an associates degree. I have a high school diploma/GED certificate. None of the above. 2 Select the choice that best describes your years of experience. Answer to this question is required I have at least three (3) years of experience working in a court setting. I have at least three (3) years of experience working in a legal office setting. I have at least three (3) years of experience working in a general office setting. None of the above. 3 Select the responses that illustrate your experience presenting information orally. Answer to this question is required I have presented business information one-on-one to an employee or colleague. I have presented business information one-on-one with a senior manager. I have presented information to small groups (2 to 10). I have presented information to medium-sized groups (11-40). I have presented information to large groups (41 or more). None of the above. 4 With which software programs do you have experience in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft PowerPoint Outlook Case Management Systems None of the above 5 I have some familiarity with the criminal justice system, judicial branch or legal terminology. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which response best represents your experience setting priorities? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in setting priorities. I have education and/or training in setting priorities but I have not had to do so at work. I have experience setting priorities for my own work under supervision. I routinely prioritize my own work without supervision. I routinely prioritize my work and the work of others. I routinely provide training to others in establishing priorities. 7 Which of the following statements describes your experience working with highly confidential information? Answer to this question is required I have not had an opportunity to display this ability. It is not a normal part of my responsibilities. I have used this ability as part of my duties in an administrative capacity within a legal environment. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am required to comply with confidentiality standards on a daily basis in a legal environment where I am responsible for maintaining confidential records in compliance with confidentiality requirements. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. 8 Which responses describe your experience working with a team? Select all the responses that apply. Answer to this question is required I worked on group projects while in college or at work. I have given group presentations while in college or at work. I worked on group projects while at work. I have given group presentations while at work. None of the above. 9 Which responses best describe your experience in public speaking? Select all the responses that apply. Answer to this question is required I have made formal presentations to subordinates, colleagues, and/or supervisors. I have delivered informational briefings to officials outside my employing organizations. I have successfully completed college level courses in public speaking. I have participated in formal oral communication groups such as Toastmasters. None of the above. 10 Which response best describes your preferred approach to reviewing documents within a short period of time? Answer to this question is required I provide a comprehensive review of documents, even if it takes longer than the specified deadline. I focus on identifying major conceptual and grammatical problems first, and then move on to minor spelling and grammatical problems if I have time. I work quickly to identify every problem within the specified timeframe. I review the documents several times looking for errors. I provide a comprehensive review of the documents within the established timeframe. None of the above. 11 Please select the choice(s) that best describes your ability to work effectively with others. Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds to achieve goals and objectives. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 12 How did you learn about this DC Courts job opportunity? Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Courts website USAJobs COSCAHR Listserve/NCSC Connected website Friend or Relative employed by the District of Columbia Courts Friend or Relative Professional Organization College/University Career Center Career/Job Fair, Conference, or Convention DC Courts Facebook page LinkedIn Other View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).