Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Additional Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications Required" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the additional qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess 4 years of education above high school. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. None of the above Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience (1) Responding to requests for information via mail, phone or in-person; gathering documents and researching data as requested; and (2) Serving as point of contact for time and leave processing on GovTA system, (ex: entering time and attendance data, identifying discrepancies, and monitoring leave usage and conducting leave audits.) in designated divisions. Grade: 06 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications Required" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a half year (i.e., 9 semester hours) of graduate level education that is directly related to the position being filled. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience providing a variety of services to the occupants of the U.S. House Office Buildings including: 1.) supporting the daily operations of the building; 2.) conducting inspections for cleanliness and maintenance; and 3.) having experience using systems to maintain data and records. Grade: 07 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience (1) Responding to requests for information via mail, phone or in-person; gathering documents and researching data as requested; and (2) Serving as point of contact for time and leave processing on GovTA system, (ex: entering time and attendance data, identifying discrepancies, and monitoring leave usage and conducting leave audits.) in designated divisions. Grade: All Grades 1 Which activities have you performed to organize the workflow of an office? Answer to this question is required Scheduled conference rooms Maintained an automated calendar Made travel arrangements Processed training requests Set up meetings Ordered supplies Maintained office supplies Set up and maintained office files Routed mail Tracked expenses for budget Processed timesheets None of the Above 2 Please select the administrative activities you have performed. Answer to this question is required I have used keyword/record searches to locate requested information. I have maintained and updated a schedule/calendar on a regular basis. I have scheduled/coordinated logistical support to manage office activities. I have organized electronic folders and sub-folders in a logical order (e.g., chronological) to facilitate finding information. I have developed standard operating procedures to direct office activities. None of the above. 3 Please select the statement that describes your highest level of experience gathering and organizing information: Answer to this question is required I do not have experience gathering or organizing information. I gathered and organized information in an academic role (e.g., to complete assignments, write papers), but have not applied this skill in my professional work. I gathered, analyzed, and organized information to complete a formal written proposal and/or oral presentation. I have reviewed and prioritized information I gathered to create a standard presentation delivered by others (e.g., PowerPoint with notes for a manager) in a professional setting. I gathered and organized information to draft reports, correspondence, and/or standard operating procedures. I have attended meetings with high ranking officials and VIPs to gather information on behalf of my supervisor or department. 4 To which types of individuals have you provided customer services (e.g., answering inquiries)? Answer to this question is required High-profile individuals (e.g., members of congress, supervisors, directors, executives) Administrative staff Members of the general public/constituents Shop workers (e.g., electricians, masons, plumbers) Peers/co-workers None of the above 5 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when exchanging information, providing advice and assistance, discussing requirements and resolving problems. Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Congressional Staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Internal Peers and Employees None of the above 6 Select the administrative activities you have performed related to electronic filing of documents and information. Answer to this question is required I have used keyword/record searches to locate requested information. I have created electronic files to store related documents/information. I have navigated through folders and sub-folders to locate requested information. I have organized folders and sub-folders in a logical order (e.g., chronological) to facilitate finding information. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience assisting with timekeeping functions, including processing timesheets using an automated timekeeping system. Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the statement that best describes your experience using GovTA. Answer to this question is required I have not used GovTA. I have completed training or education in the use of GovTA, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have entered time and attendance data into GovTA. I have entered time and attendance data and run standard reports from GovTA report selections. I have entered time and attendance data, run standard reports from GovTA report selections, and managed GovTA accounts (set up, edit, deactivate, etc..). 9 Which of the following tasks have you completed while performing Time and Attendance duties? Answer to this question is required Processing Time and Attendance Reconciling errors in electronic Time and Attendance system Catch FMLA errors Conduct Leave Audits None of the above 10 Which of the following activities describe your experience communicating with others verbally. Answer to this question is required Provided customer service by telephone (e.g. call center, help desk, or reception desk) Provided multiple-step directions to complete a task Explained issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization Explained complex theories or concepts in easily understood terms Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations Identified and obtained mission information, including from individuals who were reticent to respond Responded to requests for information from high ranking officials and VIPs None of the above 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.