Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 3 Which of the following automated Human Resources systems are you proficient with? (Proficient means that you understand and utlize a major part of the sytem functionality on a regular basis.) (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required QuickHire USA Staffing Resumix PeopleSoft Other commercial off-the-shelf automated staffing system None of the above 4 Which of the following activities related to energy project management in an institution, agency or campus environment have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing, planning, and tracking budgets for multi-year, multi-million-dollar projects I have worked on a multi-disciplinary project team in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting I have led a multi-disciplinary project team in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting and was responsible for assigning project-related work and tracking its completion. I have provided support for to a project team working on a large project in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting. I have personally managed a large (more than $1,000,000), multi-year project in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting. I have personally managed a small (less than $1,000,000), single or multi-year project in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting. I have completed formal leadership training and have knowledge of leadership principles and methods. None of the above 5 Which of the following settings have you managed or lead energy initiatives? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required In a cultural or educational institution In a government agency In a campus environment None of the above 6 Describe your skill in evaluating energy, resilience, and environmental, administrative, and policy issues necessary to evaluate and advise on policy, procedures, programs, investment and strategic planning for sustainability management. Answer to this question is required Excellent knowledge of energy management laws, rules, and practices affecting energy and water use, recycling, materials usage, waste management, toxic substances, facility design, vehicle and emissions, and other carbon footprint initiatives. Above average knowledge of energy management laws, rules, and practices affecting energy and water use, recycling, materials usage, waste management, toxic substances, facility design, vehicle and emissions, and other carbon footprint initiatives. Good knowledge of energy management laws, rules, and practices affecting energy and water use, recycling, materials usage, waste management, toxic substances, facility design, vehicle and emissions, and other carbon footprint initiatives. 7 Which of the following settings have you managed or lead energy management initiatives? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created, developed, implemented, and run a Energy Management and/or Energy Improvement Program from the ground up for government, cultural, or higher education facilities. I have taken over and made major improvements to Energy Management and/or Energy Improvement programs for government, cultural, or higher education facilities. I have taken over and run Energy Management and/or Energy Improvement programs for government, cultural, or higher education facilities. I have done none of these 8 Which of the following statements describes your experience in technical program management?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have been the lead project or program manager for a substantial project (10 or more staff, or greater than $20 million). I have been the lead project or program manager for a smaller project (fewer than 10 staff and less than $20 million). I have been an assistant project manager or participated in project management. I have studied project management but have not worked as a manager. I have no experience in project management. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience analyzing building systems and making recommendations to enhance facility energy or resilience initiatives (e.g. LEED EB)? Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing building systems and making recommendations to enhance facility energy management or resilience initiatives (e.g. LEED EB) as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training analyzing building systems and making recommendations to enhance facility energy management or resilience initiatives (e.g. LEED EB). I have had education or training analyzing building systems and making recommendations to enhance facility energy management or resilience initiatives (e.g. LEED EB) but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience analyzing building systems and making recommendations to enhance facility energy management or resilience initiatives (e.g. LEED EB) on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience analyzing building systems and making recommendations to enhance facility sustainability or resilience initiatives (e.g. LEED EB) and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in communicating orally to varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in communicating energy management and/or resilience strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities for an organization on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating energy management and/or resilience strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated energy management and/or resilience strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have communicated energy management and/or resilience strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have communicated energy management and/or resilience strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience or training in communicating energy management and/or resilience strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. 12 Which of the following types of individuals do you have experience communicating verbally with as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professors and university advisers Administrative staff Architects and engineers Construction contractors Construction management staff Museum professionals None of the above 13 Which of the following statements describes your experience conducting complex analyses of administrative, management or program (e.g., Personnel Management) processes to increase program effectiveness? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identification of issues. Development of methods and approaches for gathering data. Analytical techniques to review data and processes. Development of recommendations. Implementation and follow through of recommendations. None of the above. 14 Which of the following describes your highest level of experience in conducting technical evaluation studies for sustainability or resilience projects or programs? Answer to this question is required Participated in an exercise to evaluate multiple tools to determine which one met the documented project requirements and provided input to support the decision. Participated in an exercise to identify and evaluate multiple project systems/tools to determine which one met the documented requirements and prepared documentation to support the decision, which was reviewed by my supervisor. Participated in an effort to identify and evaluate multiple project systems/tools to determine which one met the documented requirements and prepared formal documentation to support that decision without above normal supervision. Led an effort to identify and evaluate multiple project systems/tools to determine which one met the documented requirements, and prepared and presented the formal documentation to support that decision to an approving body without supervision. None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your work experience developing strategic outreach programs for joint projects, task forces, and research networks related to cultural rescue and disaster risk management, including analysis of efficiency and relevancy over time? Answer to this question is required I have developed strategic outreach programs such as joint projects, task forces, and research networks related to cultural preservation and rescue, and analyzed and improved their efficiency and relevancy over time. I have assisted with strategic outreach programs such as joint projects, task forces, and research networks related to cultural preservation and rescue, and analyzed and improved their efficiency and relevancy over time. I have been involved with strategic outreach programs such as joint projects, task forces, and research networks related to cultural preservation and rescue, and analyzed and improved their efficiency and relevancy over time. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels? Answer to this question is required I have experience evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have education or training in evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels. I have experience evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels as a central or major part of my work and I have trained others in performance of this task, and I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience with reporting and analyzing data, comparing with prior year, budget, and projecting for possible anticipated changes in funding levels? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience reporting and analyzing financial data compared to prior year and budget, as well as understanding issues and forecasting anticipated changes in funding levels. I also am able to recognize issues and communicate them to management. I have reported and analyzed financial data for consistency with prior year, budget and can project possible changes in funding levels as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I do not have experience reporting and analyzing financial data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of financial operations, and anticipated changes in funding levels and/or funding levels. I have some experience reporting and analyzing financial data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of financial operations, and anticipated changes in funding levels. I have trained others in financial reporting and analyzing financial data, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 What is your ability to independently plan and organize work, determine approaches, strategies, and overall direction of projects, and provide advice, counsel, and instruction to subordinates on work and administrative matters ? Answer to this question is required I have excellent ability to independently plan and organize work, determine approaches, strategies, and overall direction of projects, and provide advice, counsel, and instructions to subordinates on work and administrative matters I have above average ability to independently plan and organize work, determine approaches, strategies, and overall direction of projects, and provide advice, counsel, and instructions to subordinates on work and administrative matters I have good ability to independently plan and organize work, determine approaches, strategies, and overall direction of projects, and provide advice, counsel, and instructions to subordinates on work and administrative matters None of the above 19 Which of the following statements best describes your experience level in planning, coordinating, and executing tasks to achieve project objectives and meet established deadlines? Answer to this question is required I have experience independently planning, coordinating, and executing tasks to achieve project objectives and meeting established deadlines. I have experience administering established direction and/or guidance when coordinating and executing tasks to achieve project objectives and meeting established deadlines. I have experience assisting others in planning, coordinating, and the execution of tasks to achieve project objectives and meeting established deadlines. None of the above 20 Which of the following types of programs have you developed, implemented, or managed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Environmental regulations Disaster management Sustainability / Resilience Facilities planning Energy conservation Infrastructure management None of the above 21 What is your experience determining the best way to implement new office organization policies or programs by identifying potential roadblocks and involving high-level key players in successful implementation. Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in implementing new office organization policies or programs but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have implemented new office organization policies or programs by identifying potential roadblocks and involving high-level key players in successful implementation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have implemented new office organization policies or programs by identifying potential roadblocks and involving high-level key players in successful implementation as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have implemented new office organization policies or programs by identifying potential roadblocks and involving high-level key players in successful implementation as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience or training in implementing new office organization policies or programs. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.