Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Skill in using medical instruments to perform care of a patient in a medical setting.** Used a variety of instruments to provide care in a clinic, including: 1) electro-cardiogram machine, 2) pulmonary lung function testing, 3) audiograms, 4) phlebotomy equipment, 5) blood pressure, 6) height and weight scales, 7) glucose testing, 8) pulse oximetry, 9) oral and axillary temperature, 10) TB skin testing and 11) defibrillators (AED and standard). Answer to this question is required As a medical assistant or equivalent, demonstrated expertise in using AT LEAST NINE (9) of the above instruments in a medical environment. As a medical assistant or equivalent, demonstrated expertise in using SEVEN (6) or EIGHT (8) of the above instruments in a medical environment As a medical assistant or equivalent, demonstrated expertise in using FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above instruments in a medical environment. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to provide administrative support in a medical setting.** Performs administrative support functions to an office including: 1) receiving walk-in guests and telephone inquiries from a variety of individuals, 2) assessing the nature of inquiries and providing basic triage, 3) scheduling physical exams, 4) overseening laboratory services and inventory, to include lab supplies such as collection tubes, sharps containers, needles and shipping supplies, 5) maintaining occupational health records in accordance with office protocols, and 6) processing incoming medical documentation from employees and providers. Answer to this question is required Independently provided administrative support functions to a medical office by performing ALL of the above tasks. Independently provided administrative support functions to a medical office by performing FIVE (5) of the above tasks. Independently provided administrative support functions to a medical office by performing FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to provide customer service while exercising judgment and discretion. Provided quality customer service in a positive and professional manner by recognizing client needs, effectively working with a wide variety of individuals to disseminate information and answering inquiries while exercising judgment and discretion while ensuring collection conservation and security. Answer to this question is required In a professional environment, independently provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., telephone, email, online, and/or written documents). Communicated with customers and demonstrated knowledge of products and services offered by organization/business. Handled a high volume of customer needs through first-contact resolution. Determined the scope and nature of inquiries and complaints. Obtained and examined all relevant information to assess validity of complaints and determine possible causes and independently made decisions for organization/department using diplomacy and discretion. Followed through to ensure customer inquiries and complaints were effectively resolved in established timeframes. With minimal supervision in a professional environment, provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., telephone, email, online, and/or written documents). Communicated with customers and demonstrated knowledge of products and services offered by organization/business. Handled customer needs through first-contact resolution. Identified customer complaints and offered solutions to resolve complaints. Contacted customers to notify them of the status of inquiries and the plan of action to resolve complaints. Followed through to ensure customer inquiries and complaints were effectively resolved in established timeframes. With supervision in a professional environment, provided customer service via multiple communication channels, (e.g., telephone, email, online, and/or written documents). Responded to various routine customer inquiries. Handled customer needs through first-contact resolution. Used pre-established rules and procedures for resolving customers' complaints. Contacted customers to notify them of the status of inquiries and the plan of action to resolve complaints. Followed through to ensure customer inquiries and complaints were resolved in established timeframes. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Provided clear, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products. These products include: 1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) reports, 3) training materials, 4) medical notes and/or documentation, 5) standard operating procedures, 6) emails, and 7) human resources documentation. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared ALL of the above written products for the ongoing operation of a medical office. Independently prepared FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above written products for the ongoing operation of a medical office. Independently prepared THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above written products for the ongoing operation of a medical office. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work while following guidelines. This included the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently and efficiently executed multiple, complex work assignments, identifying work objectives and determining project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, deadlines, responsibility areas, and resources required. For example, developed and implemented processes and systems for maintaining files, records, and other documents and tracking and monitoring correspondence, budgets, personnel, and other administrative requirements. Independently and efficiently executed work assignments, including identifying work objectives and determining project approaches, specific project steps, input required, milestones, deadlines, and responsibility areas. For example, developed and implemented processes and a system for maintaining files, records and other documents. Efficiently executed work assignments, including identifying work objectives and determining project approaches, specific project steps, input required, meeting deadlines, and accomplishing work, under general supervision. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).