Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of experience cleaning building spaces. Answer to this question is required I have little experience in cleaning buildings and spaces. I have cleaned building spaces with a supervisor present to guide and monitor my work. I have independently cleaned building spaces. None of the above 4 Do you have experience cleaning large facilities without close supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Have you restocked restrooms with toilet paper, hand soap, and paper towels? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Have you followed a checklist to complete cleaning tasks on the job? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which of the following cleaning tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Buffed floors Shampooed carpet Moved furniture Set up tables and chairs for meetings Oiled floor cleaning equipment Changed attachments on floor cleaning equipment Swept and mopped floors Cleaned toilets Dusted furniture, statues, or fixtures Emptied waste/recycling baskets and ashtrays Cleaned waste/recycling baskets None of the above 8 How have you used instructions in your work? Answer to this question is required To understand how to perform my job To explain how to perform tasks To learn new processes To maintain my safety None of the above 9 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Safety Data Sheets None of the above 10 Which of the following tools, equipment, and supplies have you maintained for crews? Answer to this question is required Vacuums Wet Vacuums Cleaning chemicals Cleaning carts Mops Brooms Personal protective equipment (e.g., gloves, masks) None of the above 11 Have you identified the proper material and/or product (e.g., sanitizer, polish, water) and applied the correct amount to complete a cleaning job. Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Which tools have you used/operated to perform custodial work duties? Answer to this question is required Mops Buckets Dust pans Brooms Micro-mops Brushes Mop buckets with wringers Shampooer Wet Vac Vacuum cleaner Floor scrubbers Floor Buffers None of the above 13 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 14 Which supplies have you used to clean/maintain buildings? Answer to this question is required Cleaning chemicals Sanitizing solutions Cleaning brushes Gloves and Masks Rags/Disposable wipes/Microfiber cloths None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.