Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 In which of the following environments have you applied standard construction methods? Answer to this question is required Academic studies Corporate summer job or internship Federal summer job or internship Museum, scientific or laboratory facilities Single family or multi-dwelling facility None of the above 2 Please indicate which of the following best describes your eligibility for the Pathways Recent Graduate Program? Answer to this question is required I have completed within the previous 2 years all educational requirements for a degree or certificate as described above. My intended graduation is no more than 9 months from the date of my application. I am a veteran who, due to a military service obligation was precluded from applying to the Recent Graduates Program during a portion of the 2-year eligibility period and I have completed my degree or certificate within the past 6 years. I have completed all educational requirements for a degree or certificate, but not within the last 2 years. I will complete all educational requirements for a degree or certificate, but not within the next 9 months from the date of my application. None of the above 3 Which of the following best reflects your level of involvement performing building inspections during construction or renovation? Answer to this question is required I have performed inspections as a member of an inspection team. I have led a team performing inspections. I have performed inspections as an individual. I have not participated in building inspections, but am willing to learn. None of the above. 4 In which of the following environments have you applied architectural or engineering principles and techniques? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Academic studies Corporate summer job or internship Federal summer job or internship Museum facilities Scientific or laboratory facilities None of the above 5 Which of the following computer software applications do you have experience using as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Autodesk tools. Constructware, prolog or similar construction management software. BIM tools. Integrated office software (e.g. Office, Excel, PowerPoint). Photoshop. Adobe. I do not have experience with the listed software applications but I am willing to learn. 6 Which of the following types of written communication have you created or reviewed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Edited specifications. Submittals. Position paper. Components of technical reports. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience delivering presentations? Answer to this question is required I have delivered presentations in an academic setting. I have delivered and defended a design presentation to an audience of experts or faculty in an academic setting. I have assisted with delivering a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I have independently delivered a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I do not have experience making presentations 8 In which of the following settings do you have experience gathering factual information through conversations or interviews for use in projects or reports? Answer to this question is required Academic settings as a student. A professional setting as an intern or employee. Both academic as well as professional settings. None of the above. 9 Which of the following demonstrate your experience communicating in a professional or customer service environment assisting diverse groups. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Museum professionals Administrative staff Clerical personnel Contractors General public Resident Engineers Construction Management staff None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.