Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and/or lead and develop a diverse workforce.** Led and developed a diverse workforce and in doing so, performed the following: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) evaluated work performance, 4) interviewed candidates for positions, 5) heard and resolved employee informal complaints and referred other complaints such as formal grievances to the appropriate resource, 6) identified developmental/training needs, 7) communicated organizational policies to the staff, 8) recommended awards for employees, 9) found ways to improve production quality, 10) monitored and reported on progress of work in progress, and 11) reviewed completed work to see that the instructions on work priorities, methods, deadlines and quality were met. Answer to this question is required Exercised a range of supervisory/lead personnel management responsibilities including AT LEAST EIGHT (8) of the above, including 1) – 3). Exercised a range of supervisory/lead personnel management responsibilities including SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above, including 1) – 3). Exercised LIMITED supervisory/team lead personnel management responsibilities including: FOUR (4) or FIVE of the above, including 1) – 3). None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions.** Developed, planned, and evaluated strategies needed to coordinate and resolve organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Analyzed highly complex or unusual issues and operational problems in the organization, evaluated alternatives and disputed facts in arriving at sound, logical solutions. Made timely recommendations for modification or improvement and ensured quality goals were met or exceeded and that policies and procedures were appropriately and consistently applied. Analyzed issues and operational problems in the organization, arriving at sound, logical solutions. Made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. Performed a key role in ensuring that quality goals were met and that policies and procedures were appropriately and consistently applied. Analyzed issues and operational problems in the organization, arriving at sound, logical solutions. Made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to communicate and interact with others. Communicated and interacted with others to explain complex information and/or procedures clearly and concisely. Answer to this question is required Interacted and communicated as an authoritative source with subject matter experts, the public, and staff concerning copyright and/or legal issues. For example, presented copyright registration or other legal information to subject matter experts, staff and/or the public and explained conditions delaying or preventing registration. Interacted and communicated with others, including staff and persons in the private and public sector. For example, provided and explained specialized and/or complex information to groups and individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. Made persuasive, informative presentations on complex issues. For example, served as an agency, company, or office spokesperson. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures, and practices. Utilized copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures, and practices to advise on and apply registration provisions of the law. Answer to this question is required Applied registration provisions of copyright law. Examined claims and provided advice and assistance to the public on registration procedures. Interpreted laws and trained others on registration provisions. Examined works in various subject areas; interpreted and applied complex provisions of the law. Applied registration provisions of copyright law. Examined claims and provided advice and assistance to the public on registration procedures; provided peer training on copyright issues and/or worked as a rights and permission person for a publisher. Worked in an environment where copyright statutes and regulations were utilized; searched and prepared reports on copyright issues; and/or prepared copyright claims for filing. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared formal and informal correspondence interpreting or explaining copyright procedures or issues clearly and concisely. Answer to this question is required Prepared written documents on copyright procedures and issues of a complex or sensitive nature which were viewed and understood by wide audiences. Prepared detailed memoranda/reports that included thesis or persuasive writing aimed at proving theory, facilitating change and/or interpreting factual information to clearly and concisely present positions. Wrote analytical and technical reports interpreting or explaining copyright procedures or issues that included thesis or persuasive writing aimed at proving theory, facilitating change, and interpreting factual information to present a position. Wrote clear and concise documents evaluating copyright procedures or technical issues. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).