Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Yes No EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in any field leading to a bachelor's degree, in an accredited college or university, is qualifying for GL-5 level. NOTE: Applications will be accepted from applicants who expect to complete qualifying education within 30 days from the date of application. Applicants must provide evidence of successful completion of the education requirement before appointment. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Senior Officer Specialist must remain calm and act quickly in emergency situations, handle aggressive inmates, and act to prevent life threatening situations, such as riots, hostage dilemmas, escapes, and medical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have called 911 and relayed information; and/or I have served as a volunteer fireman; and/or I have assisted in the performance of CPR; and/or I have actively participated in a mock emergency exercise. I have completed a college level course covering deviant or abnormal behavior; and/or I have completed a course in defensive driving; and/or I have administered a breathalyzer check without incident; and/or I have participated in a security detail or event; and/or I have conducted security checks to allow and/or prevent others from entering a facility or restricted area. I have evacuated inmates due to mechanical failures in a housing unit: and/or I have notified Health Services that an inmate had sustained a minor injury; and/or I have noticed a discrepancy in the posted picture file and made appropriate correction. None of the above. 3 The Senior Officer Specialist must write disciplinary reports, work orders, internal memoranda&rsquo;s and ensure proper documentation is completed while working high profile posts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared inmate performance pay forms; and/or I have prepared supply requisitions forms; and/or I have completed inmate property inventories. I have prepared legible routine correspondence; and/or I have completed an “Introduction to Writing” course or equivalent; and/or I have completed applications for employment, benefits, and/or assistance; and/or I have maintained logbooks. I have prepared incident reports; and/or I have prepared contracts or other documents using pre-printed and/or standard forms; and/or I have written a college term paper; and/or I have issued a citation or field article; and/or I have written a summary report from an audit finding. None of the above. 4 The Senior Officer Specialist must be able to express ideas clearly and concisely to individuals and or groups in both stressful and non-stressful situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided safety talks/lectures to others on equipment and tool issues to ensure a safe work environment; and/or I have issued a citation; and/or I have provided general instructions/information to inquiries received from external sources; and/or I have completed a Dale Carnegie or equivalent public speaking course. I have spoken to co-workers during an institution recall or event; and/or I have provided general information to institution visitors; and/or I have responded to basic inquiries received from inmates/staff. I have worked as retail/restaurant worker; and/or I have worked as a daycare provider; and/or I have completed an introduction to public speaking course; and/or I have participated on a high school debate team; and/or I have served as an assistant coach; and/or I have worked as a customer/visitor greeter. None of the above. 5 The Senior Officer Specialist must recognize potentially dangerous situations such as riots, assaults, and escapes. He/she must react appropriately by keeping officials informed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have listened and applied verbal instructions; and/or I have used knowledge obtained from a customer service training session to enhance the level of service provided; and/or I have followed job/school related guidelines to complete assignments. I have reported overt signs of aggression and/or unrest; and/or I have, based on observation, notified medical/psychology regarding uncommon behavior of an inmate/client/resident; and/or I have appropriately logged information into the post sensitive logbook. I have conducted unscheduled inmate census count to ensure accountability; and/or I have coordinated an event using established guidelines; and/or I have overseen the accomplishment of daily tasks in accordance with employer instructions; and/or I have reported an absent inmate from a work detail. None of the above. 6 The Senior Officer Specialist must lead, train, and advise other staff and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a course on training techniques; and/or I have assisted in providing guidance to inmates/clients/patients during recreational activities; and/or I have led a customer service training session. I have led a church youth group; and/or I have worked/volunteered at a daycare center, assisted living and/or nursing home; and/or I have worked as a substitute teacher; and/or I have worked as a bus driver. I have convinced inmates to work under unusual/adverse working conditions (i.e., snow removal, hurricane preparation); and/or I have supervised arts and crafts or equivalent activity in a state/local/private mental health facility; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy (bed book counts, etc.). None of the above. Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GL-5 grade level or meet the educational requirement as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or educational requirement for this position? Yes, I have one year of specialized experience as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT and my resume clearly describes this experience. Yes, I meet the educational requirement as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. No, I do not meet the experience or educational requirement. NOTE: Applications will be accepted from applicants who expect to complete qualifying education within 30 days from the date of application. Applicants must provide evidence of successful completion of the education requirement before appointment. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Senior Officer Specialist must remain calm and act quickly in emergency situations, handle aggressive inmates, and act to prevent life threatening situations, such as riots, hostage dilemmas, escapes, and medical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a college level course covering deviant or abnormal behavior; and/or I have completed a course in defensive driving; and/or I have administered a breathalyzer check without incident; and/or I have participated in a security detail or event; and/or I have conducted security checks to allow and/or prevent others from entering a facility or restricted area. I have evacuated inmates due to mechanical failures in a housing unit; and/or I have notified Health Services that an inmate had sustained a minor injury; and/or I have noticed a discrepancy in the posted picture file and made appropriate correction. I have ensured proper inmate movement was adhered to by modifying movement schedules to adhere to safety precautions; and/or I have, during an institution lock-down, escorted inmates for interviews; and/or I have reported suspicious inmate behavior. None of the above. 3 The Senior Officer Specialist must write disciplinary reports, work orders, internal memoranda&rsquo;s and ensure proper documentation is completed while working high profile posts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided detailed information of events in the logbook for the next officer to reference; and/or I have prepared articles for institution newsletter; and/or I have prepared memorandums describing the supply schedule in a housing unit. I have prepared incident reports; and/or I have prepared contracts or other documents using pre-printed and/or standard forms; and/or I have written a college term paper; and/or I have issued a citation or field article; and/or I have written a summary report from an audit finding. I have prepared inmate performance pay forms; and/or I have prepared supply requisitions forms; and/or I have completed inmate property inventories. None of the above. 4 The Senior Officer Specialist must be able to express ideas clearly and concisely to individuals and or groups in both stressful and non-stressful situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have spoken to co-workers during an institution recall or event; and/or I have provided general information to institution visitors; and/or I have responded to basic inquiries received from inmates/staff. I have provided detailed instructions to inmates on how to complete tasks; and/or I have screened incoming calls using proper locator center procedures; and/or I have clarified policy or procedures to a newly incarcerated inmate. I have provided safety talks/lectures to others on equipment and tool issues to ensure a safe work environment; and/or I have issued a citation; and/or I have provided general instructions/information to inquiries received from external sources; and/or I have completed a Dale Carnegie or equivalent public speaking course. None of the above. 5 The Senior Officer Specialist must recognize potentially dangerous situations such as riots, assaults, and escapes. He/she must react appropriately by keeping officials informed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted unscheduled inmate census count to ensure accountability; and/or I have coordinated an event using established guidelines; and/or I have overseen the accomplishment of daily tasks in accordance with employer instructions; and/or I have reported an absent inmate from a work detail. I have called for medical assistance for someone who appeared ill; and/or I have notified Psychology Services of a possible suicidal inmate after observing him/her giving personal items to others; and/or I have, upon observation, initiated a physical search of a suspicious inmate. I have reported overt signs of aggression and/or unrest; and/or I have, based on observation, notified medical/psychology regarding uncommon behavior of an inmate/client/resident; and/or I have appropriately logged information into the post sensitive logbook. None of the above. 6 The Senior Officer Specialist must lead, train, and advise other staff and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have convinced inmates to work under unusual/adverse working conditions (i.e., snow removal, hurricane preparation); and/or I have supervised arts and crafts or equivalent activity in a state/local/private mental health facility; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy (bed book counts, etc.). I have completed a course on training techniques; and/or I have assisted in providing guidance to inmates/clients/patients during recreational activities; and/or I have led a customer service training session. I have recruited inmates to work on a detail; and/or I have enforced policy/procedures to inmates and visitors; and/or I have provided guidance to staff during institutional searches; and/or I have considered other team members ideas that were discussed with the supervisor. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Yes, I have one year of specialized experience as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT and my resume clearly describes this experience. Yes, I meet the educational requirement as describes in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. No, I do not meet the experience or educational requirement. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. NOTE: Applications will be accepted from applicants who expect to complete qualifying education within 30 days from the date of application. Applicants must provide evidence of successful completion of the education requirement before appointment. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Senior Officer Specialist must remain calm and act quickly in emergency situations, handle aggressive inmates, and act to prevent life threatening situations, such as riots, hostage dilemmas, escapes, and medical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evacuated inmates due to mechanical failures in a housing unit; and/or I have notified Health Services that an inmate had sustained a minor injury; and/or I have noticed a discrepancy in the posted picture file and made appropriate correction. I have ensured proper inmate movement was adhered to by modifying movement schedules to adhere to safety precautions; and/or I have, during an institution lock-down escorted inmates for interviews; and/or I have reported suspicious inmate behavior. I have assisted in restraining a combative inmate who appeared to be in distress; and/or I have used proper procedures and called for assistance in stopping a fight between two inmates; and/or I have followed established guidelines during an institution lock-down; and/or I have coordinated a movement during a modified institution lock-down. None of the above. 3 The Senior Officer Specialist must write disciplinary reports, work orders, internal memoranda&rsquo;s and ensure proper documentation is completed while working high profile posts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared work orders and disciplinary reports; and/or I have provided written recommendations/suggestions that were used in improving the operation of the institution; and/or I have prepared disciplinary reports and/or supporting memorandum that resulted in a sustained action. I have prepared inmate performance pay forms; and/or I have prepared supply requisitions forms; and/or I have completed inmate property inventories. I have provided detailed information of events in the logbook for the next officer to reference; and/or I have prepared articles for institution newsletter; and/or I have prepared memorandums describing the supply schedule in a housing unit. None of the above. 4 The Senior Officer Specialist must be able to express ideas clearly and concisely to individuals and or groups in both stressful and non-stressful situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided detailed instructions to inmates on how to complete tasks; and/or I have screened incoming calls using proper locator center procedures; and/or I have clarified policy or procedures to a newly incarcerated inmate. I have interviewed inmates after a physical altercation; and/or I have presented information on safety of the institution during a conference call; and/or I have presented safety lectures or orientations to new inmates; and/or I have informed unit team staff regarding the work or personal habits of inmates. I have spoken to co-workers during an institution recall or event; and/or I have provided general information to institution visitors; and/or I have responded to basic inquiries received from inmates/staff. None of the above. 5 The Senior Officer Specialist must recognize potentially dangerous situations such as riots, assaults, and escapes. He/she must react appropriately by keeping officials informed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported overt signs of aggression and/or unrest; and/or I have, based on observation, notified medical/psychology regarding uncommon behavior of an inmate/client/resident; and/or I have appropriately logged information into the post sensitive logbook. I have accurately reported unusual activities of inmates listed in the high-profile listing; and/or I have identified temperament and mood of inmate population during institution lock-down and reported to appropriate supervisor; and/or I have, upon suspicion, searched an inmate’s living area, found contraband, and reported it accordingly. I have called for medical assistance for someone who appeared ill; and/or I have notified Psychology Services of a possible suicidal inmate after observing him/her giving personal items to others; and/or I have, upon observation, initiated a physical search of a suspicious inmate. None of the above. 6 The Senior Officer Specialist must lead, train, and advise other staff and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recruited inmates to work on a detail; and/or I have enforced policy/procedures to inmates and visitors; and/or I have provided guidance to staff during institutional searches; and/or I have considered other team members ideas that were discussed with the supervisor. I have convinced inmates to work under unusual/adverse working conditions (i.e., snow removal, hurricane preparation); and/or I have supervised arts and crafts or equivalent activity in a state/local/private mental health facility; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy (bed book counts, etc.). I have trained less experienced staff how to complete yard moves, cell searches, key, and radio procedures; and/or I have used positive reinforcement to gain the cooperation of others; and/or I have motivated inmates with recommendations to Unit staff for conducting extra duties; and/or I have worked with other members of the team to accomplish the goal/mission as assigned by the supervisor. None of the above. Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Senior Officer Specialist must remain calm and act quickly in emergency situations, handle aggressive inmates, and act to prevent life threatening situations, such as riots, hostage dilemmas, escapes, and medical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured proper inmate movement was adhered to by modifying movement schedules to adhere to safety precautions; and/or I have, during an institution lock-down, escorted inmates for interviews; and/or I have reported suspicious inmate behavior. I have assisted in restraining a combative inmate who appeared to be in distress; and/or I have used proper procedures and called for assistance in stopping a fight between two inmates; and/or I have followed established guidelines during an institution lock-down; and/or I have coordinated a movement during a modified institution lock-down. I have taken corrective action to contain an incident by securing the area before an altercation could take place; and/or I have intervened to prevent a fight between inmates; and/or I have coordinated efforts to move a critically injured inmate from a housing unit to medical services/outside hospital; and/or I have coordinated inmate movement; and/or I have, during a pat search, retrieved contraband from a disruptive inmate; and/or I have responded during an emergency situation and directed guidance to responding staff. None of the above. 3 The Senior Officer Specialist must write disciplinary reports, work orders, internal memoranda&rsquo;s and ensure proper documentation is completed while working high profile posts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have, while working a critical post, ensured all paperwork was completed and accurate (i.e., specific forms, count procedures and slips); and/or I have worked as the rear gate or tool room officer and ensured all required documentation was completed and reported any discrepancies to the appropriate supervisor. I have provided detailed information of events in the logbook for the next officer to reference; and/or I have prepared articles for institution newsletter; and/or I have prepared memorandums describing the supply schedule in a housing unit. I have prepared work orders and disciplinary reports; and/or I have provided written recommendations/suggestions that were used in improving the operation of the institution; and/or I have prepared disciplinary report and/or supporting memorandum that resulted in a sustained action. I have ensured all logs are properly updated with information pertaining to all facets of correctional services; and/or I have identified security weakness and provided recommendations for corrective action that were implemented; and/or I have worked the Restrictive Housing Unit as the Officer in Charge (OIC) and ensured all required log information was annotated correctly and accurately; and/or I have prepared proper paperwork for scheduled meetings for the Restrictive Housing Unit. None of the above. 4 The Senior Officer Specialist must be able to express ideas clearly and concisely to individuals and or groups in both stressful and non-stressful situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interviewed inmates after a physical altercation; and/or I have presented information on safety of the institution during a conference call; and/or I have presented safety lectures or orientations to new inmates; and/or I have informed unit team staff regarding the work or personal habits of inmates. I have enforced institution rules by explaining policy to other officers; and/or I have conducted admission and orientation for newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have convinced violent inmates to remain calm; and/or I have given instructions or relayed information to staff during an institutional emergency; and/or I have trained subordinate officers in day to day correctional activities. I have provided detailed instructions to inmates on how to complete tasks; and/or I have screened incoming calls using proper locator center procedures; and/or I have clarified policy or procedures to a newly incarcerated inmate. I have directed and organized a mass area search and/or targeted searches in order to remove contraband; and/or I have organized or assisted with the completion of mock/training exercises to respond effectively to emergency situations; and/or I have taught classes during Introduction to Correctional Techniques, Phase I or Annual Training. None of the above. 5 The Senior Officer Specialist must recognize potentially dangerous situations such as riots, assaults, and escapes. He/she must react appropriately by keeping officials informed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported signs of a food strike or tips from inmates, which resulted in the institution’s ability to implement preventative measures; and/or I have identified and reported possible escape attempt and appropriately secured the area; and/or I have found and reported signs of windows or bars being cut to facilitate an escape; and/or I have observed inmates entering a housing unit to which he/she was not assigned and took corrective action. I have accurately reported unusual activities of inmates listed in the high-profile listing; and/or I have identified temperament and mood of inmate population during institution lock-down and reported to appropriate supervisor; and/or I have, upon suspicion, searched an inmate’s living area, found contraband, and reported it accordingly. I have called for medical assistance for someone who appeared ill; and/or I have notified Psychology Services of a possible suicidal inmate after observing him/her giving personal items to others; and/or I have, upon observation, initiated a physical search of a suspicious inmate. I have observed inmate interactions to identify the leaders of disruptive groups in order to isolate them from the general population; and/or I have recommended an inmate be placed in protective custody after observing he/she may have been assaulted; and/or I have recognized when inmates appear to be under the influence of intoxicants. None of the above. 6 The Senior Officer Specialist must lead, train, and advise other staff and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained less experienced staff how to complete yard moves, cell searches, key, and radio procedures; and/or I have used positive reinforcement to gain the cooperation of others; and/or I have motivated inmates with recommendations to Unit staff for conducting extra duties; and/or I have worked with other members of the team to accomplish the goal/mission as assigned by the supervisor. I have, on a regular basis, trained and guided other officers to achieve higher standards of performance by properly training them in all guidelines for inmate monitoring techniques; and/or I have provided guidance to peers on proper count procedures and census checks to ensure accuracy; and/or I have coordinated a mass shakedown during an institutional emergency and motivated others; and/or I have provided information, experience, and knowledge to individuals/groups; and/or I have organized impromptu training sessions in order to develop staffs knowledge and skill sets while instilling greater motivation to enhance job performance. I have recruited inmates to work on a detail; and/or I have enforced policy/procedures to inmates and visitors; and/or I have provided guidance to staff during institutional searches; and/or I have considered other team members ideas that were discussed with the supervisor. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Previous law enforcement experience or Veterans Preference: Answer to this question is required I have previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position covered by special retirement provisions and will provide an SF-50 as proof of such service at the time I apply, OR I am a qualified preference eligible. I have NOT previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position; AND I am NOT a preference eligible. 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).