Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office at the time you apply. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement; HOWEVER, I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, AND I was not previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( I.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Education Technician must work with other staff, volunteer and contract staff, teachers, community library personnel, paralegal technicians, and all program participants.&nbsp; He/she must also deal tactfully and effectively with participants of varying educational and socioeconomic backgrounds. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained overall testing procedures to students/inmates; and/or I have instructed students/inmates regarding completion of answer sheets; and/or I have conversed and exchanged ideas with staff at other facilities. I have briefed management on overall enrollment in all education classes; and/or I have briefed management on enrollment in college courses; and/or I have interviewed incoming inmates/students to determine educational interests; and/or I have presented an oral report on education activities; and/or I have assisted with classroom attendance and student accountability. I have provided management with information on class attendance; and/or I have provided General Education Development (GED) test results to management; and/or I have counseled problematic students/inmates. None of the above. 5 The Education Technician prepares program activity reports to update management on enrollments, completions, and withdrawals.&nbsp; He/she also write a variety of correspondence, including, memoranda, electronic mail, purchase requests, and requisitions for supplies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted a summary of all educational programs with descriptions; and/or I have written an educational recommendation regarding programs for students/inmates; and/or I have prepared documentation during a unit team/counseling group; and/or I have corresponded via e-mail with management staff; and/or I have assisted with the law library inventory. I have drafted letters seeking volunteers; and/or I have written letters/e-mails to clarify questions regarding students/inmates; and/or I have requested student transcripts. I have drafted letters of appreciation to outside guests/lecturers; and/or I have drafted letter inviting outside guests in for educational programs or activities; and/or I have written inmate performance evaluations. None of the above. 6 The Education Technician must be able to identify elements of program activities that have an impact on major assignments.&nbsp; He/she must also keep informed about alternative education programs to which temporary assignments are made.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained books and equipment; and/or I have compared and reconciled using an automated system (i.e., class capacity, class completions); and/or I have ensured proper check-out and exchanged procedures; and/or I have conducted Time and Attendance (T&A) report audits for all department staff; and/or I have processed purchases required for law library per operations directive. I have ensured all reporting requirements of the education department are met; and/or I have created, maintained, and filed education records for each student; and/or I have maintained inventory and submitted requisitions for ordering equipment and supplies. I have analyzed, and summarized information on budget utilized for a student/inmate education program; and/or I have verified enrollment data; and/or I have verified and compiled statistical information needed for report for administrator’s submission to a regional authority and/or Central Office; and/or I have processed purchases required for the law library per operations directive. None of the above. 7 The Education Technician must accurately enter and maintain information on course enrollments, withdrawals, and completions.&nbsp; He/she must be able to use Microsoft products to produce written reports for management and send electronic mail messages and access policy. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have accessed education information on computer/Sentry system; and/or I have keyed test results in system; and/or I have, using Microsoft Word, written descriptions of course offerings; and/or I have, as instructed, produced reports and transactions needed to monitor program progress and complied with policy and updated student electronic records. I have entered data provided from management into an existing system; and/or I have submitted Performance Pay reports to the department supervisor; and/or I have ensured accuracy of all documents; and/or I have keyed and submitted Time and Attendance (T&A) data. I have created a table with columns, lines, and various fonts; and/or I have typed statistical report on a table; and/or I have maintained basic student information in computer/Sentry systems using various software; and/or I have, under close supervision, conducted computer transactions needed to update student electronic records; and/or I have worked with the system and the transactions needed to update electronic records. None of the above. 8 The Education Technician must possess a knowledge of program objectives, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements affecting educational programs. He/she must also enforce Bureau of Prisons program statements, institution supplements, and regulations and procedures in a correctional setting, particularly when dealing with contract personnel.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated all library functions; and/or I have assisted in conducting semi-annual law library inventories; and/or I have answered student/inmate questions regarding educational program offerings during orientation. I have advised other education staff of changes in policy as national program statements; and/or I have followed test administration procedures; and/or I have answered questions regarding education standards. I have applied assignments from the Education Department Sentry (EDS) manual; and/or I have ensured accountability of policy, information, memos or correspondence; and/or I have responded to students/customers/inmates’ requests regarding educational programs; and/or I have followed all education-related program statements and supplements; and/or I have assisted with the coordination and supervision of inmate libraries and/or evening programs such as student gatherings or inmate taught classes. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office at the time you apply. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Education Technician must work with other staff, volunteer and contract staff, teachers, community library personnel, paralegal technicians, and all program participants.&nbsp; He/she must also deal tactfully and effectively with participants of varying educational and socioeconomic backgrounds.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed management on research pertaining to student/client/inmate education; and/or I have served as a contact with academic institutions or college coordinators that provided educational services to students/inmates; and/or I have met with unit team or counselors to discuss educational programs for students/inmates; and/or I have provided relief for a teacher to maintain attendance and order in the classroom. I have briefed management on overall enrollment in all education classes; and/or I have briefed management on enrollment in college courses; and/or I have interviewed incoming students/inmates to determine educational interests; and/or I have presented an oral report on education activities; and/or I have assisted with classroom attendance and student accountability. I have provided management with information on class attendance; and/or I have provided General Education Development (GED) test results to management; and/or I have counseled problematic students/inmates. None of the above. 5 The Education Technician prepares program activity reports to update management on enrollments, completions, and withdrawals.&nbsp; He/she also write a variety of correspondence, including, memoranda, electronic mail, purchase requests, and requisitions for supplies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted a summary of all educational programs with descriptions; and/or I have written an educational recommendation regarding programs for students/inmates; and/or I have prepared documentation during a unit team/counseling group; and/or I have corresponded via e-mail with management staff; and/or I have assisted with the law library inventory. I have written, compiled submissions from other departments, and edited the Admission and Orientation (A&O) Handbook or informational handbook/brochure; and/or I have prepared detailed minutes from staff meeting; and/or I have prepared educational statistical reports for management; and/or I have written portions of an annual report on education programs; and/or I have conducted and completed law library inventory. I have drafted letters of appreciation to outside guests/lecturers; and/or I have drafted letter inviting outside guests in for educational programs or activities; and/or I have written inmate performance evaluations. None of the above. 6 The Education Technician must be able to identify elements of program activities that have an impact on major assignments.&nbsp; He/she must also keep informed about alternative education programs to which temporary assignments are made.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured all reporting requirements of the education department are met; and/or I have created, maintained, and filed education records for each student; and/or I have maintained inventory and submitted requisitions for ordering equipment and supplies. I have analyzed trends on monthly and weekly data of participation in education programs; and/or I have evaluated and projected goals on outcomes of education programs; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated department budgetary data and financial records; and/or I have monitored operations memorandums/policy issued from the governing office and coordinated and completed the required legal purchases. I have analyzed, and summarized information on budget utilized for a student/inmate education program; and/or I have verified enrollment data; and/or I have verified and compiled statistical information needed for report for administrator’s submission to a regional authority and/or Central Office; and/or I have processed purchases required for the law library per operations directive. None of the above. 7 The Education Technician must accurately enter and maintain information on course enrollments, withdrawals, and completions.&nbsp; He/she must be able to use Microsoft products to produce written reports for management and send electronic mail messages and access policy.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have produced daily, weekly, and monthly education reports; and/or I have worked with education computer systems (Education Data System (EDS)) group codes; and/or I have generated reports and information from a computer system; and/or I have independently produced reports and transactions needed to monitor program progress, and applied that data to inmate/student records. I have created a table with columns, lines, and various fonts; and/or I have typed statistical report on a table; and/or I have maintained basic student information in computer/Sentry systems using various software; and/or I have, under close supervision, conducted computer transactions needed to update student electronic records; and/or I have worked with the system and the transactions needed to update electronic records. I have accessed education information on computer/Sentry system; and/or I have keyed test results in system; and/or I have, using Microsoft Word, written descriptions of course offerings; and/or I have, as instructed, produced reports and transactions needed to monitor program progress and complied with policy and updated student electronic records. None of the above. 8 The Education Technician must possess a knowledge of program objectives, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements affecting educational programs. He/she must also enforce Bureau of Prisons program statements, institution supplements, and regulations and procedures in a correctional setting, particularly when dealing with contract personnel.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied assignments from the Education Department Sentry (EDS) manual; and/or I have ensured accountability of policy, information, memos, or correspondence; and/or I have responded to students/customers/inmates’ requests regarding educational programs; and/or I have followed all education-related program statements and supplements; and/or I have assisted with the coordination and supervision of inmate libraries and/or evening programs such as student gatherings or inmate taught classes. I have used education classes (EDC) group codes and assignments from the Education Department Sentry (EDS) Manual; and/or I have administered tests according to test standards; and/or I have applied minimum standards for education according to the provisions in program statements; and/or I have coordinated and/or established student libraries time and other evening programs such as inmate taught classes or student groups. I have advised other education staff of changes in policy as national program statements; and/or I have followed test administration procedures; and/or I have answered questions regarding education standards. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).