Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Candidates must be currently licensed to practice as practical or vocational nurses in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. 2 In addition to the licensure requirement, applicants must have one year of nursing experience equivalent to at least the GS-6 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit a certified or photostatic copy of the license, a notarized statement attesting to the fact, or a citation of the license number and State issuing it by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Practical Nurse communicates with such departments as Food Service, Facilities, Pharmacy and Health Systems Administration to assist the Registered Nurse or Physician Assistant and ensure inpatient needs are met. Additionally, Practical Nurses contact consultant&rsquo;s offices and clinical laboratories for laboratory results and records reports given over the telephone. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on committees; and/or I have conveyed information to supervisor for improving organizational performance and patient progress; and/or I have participated in meetings, conferences and in-service programs; and/or I have communicated information to patients, staff and the public; and/or I have served as a preceptor to new staff members; and/or I have provided patient education; and/or I have redirected difficult patients while remaining calm. I have interacted with ancillary departments; and/or I have reported pertinent information to the charge nurse or supervisor; and/or I have communicated pertinent information to the unit officer or lieutenant. I have participated in inter-disciplinary team meetings; and/or I have provided shift reports; and/or I have facilitated group therapy sessions. None of the above. 4 The Practical Nurse provide a range of standard patient care including wound care, sterile dressings, irrigations, compresses, laboratory tests, and administering prescribed medications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained updated records; and/or I have provided patient care as directed by the policy and procedure manual; and/or I have utilized sterile techniques, where appropriate; and/or I have practiced universal/standard precautions. I have assisted with emergency situations under the direction of a registered nurse; and/or under direction of registered nurse, I have utilized advanced cardiac life support protocols; and/or I have led therapeutic groups under the review of a registered nurse; and/or I have given intravenous access under the direction of a registered nurse; and/or I have participated with in-service programs. I have identified the need for therapeutic group; and/or I have provided supervision, guidance, direction, instruction and counseling to inmate hospital workers in the performance of their assigned duties; and/or I have completed patient teaching as appropriate. None of the above. 5 The Practical Nurse observes and reports gross changes in the patients&rsquo; vital signs, symptoms, and general physical and emotional conditions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported and recorded information; and/or I have detected pupillary change; and/or I have auscultated apical pulse; and/or noting regularity, I have recognized abnormality of breath sounds. I have recorded and reported pertinent information; and/or I have initiated CPR; and/or I have reported infiltrated IV to the charge nurse; and/or I have provided intervention for asthma attack. I have participated in inter-disciplinary team, providing input into patient care plan; and/or I have readily recognized identifiable or major changes in a patient's status; and/or I have documented and reported changes to appropriate staff under established protocols. None of the above. 6 The Practical Nurse participates with the Registered Nurses and other health team members in planning, evaluating, and revising patient care plans to ensure updated recording and contribute toward quality assurance for nursing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have initiated standardized care plans for new admissions; and/or I have added information to existing care plans; and/or I have completed tasks/goals from existing care plans. I have reviewed and documented per policy; and/or I have updated information to reflect order changes; and/or I have assessed goal and completion dates. I have provided updates regarding treatment changes; and/or I have provided updates regarding patient's progress; and/or I have evaluated patient's limitations per care plan. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).