Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform IT research and analysis.** Provided expert analysis and advice on complex program related information technology (IT) issues, including monitoring for changing program requirements, identifying relevant issues and collecting information from varied sources. Answer to this question is required Served as a subject matter expert and provided expert research and analysis on issues and problems related to large complex IT SYSTEMS OR PROGRAMS for AGENCY/BUSINESS-WIDE IT PROGRAMS serving over 1500 users. Conducted research and analysis reaching solutions to issues and problems related to IT SYSTEMS OR PROGRAMS for AGENCY/BUSINESS-WIDE IT PROGRAMS serving over 1000 users. Conducted research and analysis reaching solutions to issues and problems related to IT SYSTEMS OR PROGRAMS associated with ONE OR MORE BUSINESS UNITS totaling approximately 500 users. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of cybersecurity principles, methods, and tools.** Utilized knowledge of IT security operations, techniques, and standards in order to assess the safeguarding of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of IT systems, networks and data, implementing additional safeguards where necessary.&nbsp; Applied knowledge of the NIST or other standards and federal laws and regulations covering IT security. Answer to this question is required Served as the IT SECURITY PROGRAM MANAGER OR EQUIVALENT for NUMEROUS IT systems supporting 1500 or more end users. Coordinated, scheduled and conducted special security studies, analyses, surveys, or reviews (e.g., certification and accreditation) of these IT systems, producing appropriate reports to management and technical personnel. Ensured controls were implemented and established to appropriately protect ALL the IT systems to ensure that safeguards existed to protect against perceived threats, implementing additional safeguards where necessary, demonstrating EXPERT knowledge of cybersecurity principles, methodologies, tools and standards. Served as the IT SECURITY PROGRAM MANAGER OR EQUIVALENT for NUMEROUS IT systems supporting 1000 or more end users. Coordinated, scheduled and conducted special security studies, analyses, surveys, or reviews (e.g., certification and accreditation) of these IT systems, producing appropriate reports to management and technical personnel. Ensured controls were implemented and established to appropriately protect ALL the IT systems to ensure that safeguards existed to protect against perceived threats, implementing additional safeguards where necessary, demonstrating EXPERT knowledge of cybersecurity principles, methodologies, tools and standards. Served as the INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY OFFICER OR EQUIVALENT for ONE or MORE IT systems supporting 500 or more end users. Coordinated, scheduled and conducted special security studies, analyses, surveys, or reviews of ONE or MORE IT systems to ensure that safeguards existed to protect against perceived threats, implementing additional safeguards where necessary, demonstrating EXTENSIVE knowledge of cybersecurity principles, methodologies, tools and standards. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to develop IT policies and guidelines. Developed directives and guidelines to implement high-level policy changes that impact significant agency technology resource requirements, analyzing statutory requirements, future trends, feasibility and risk, creating guidance, position papers and policy. Answer to this question is required Have EXPERT experience creating ALL of the following: 1) DIRECTIVES, 2) POSITION PAPERS, and 3) POLICIES, at the ORGANIZATIONAL level, including the ability to apply quality assurance principles to ensure high quality output. Have SIGNIFICANT experience creating ALL of the following: 1) DIRECTIVES, 2) POSITION PAPERS, and 3) POLICIES, at the ORGANIZATIONAL level, including the ability to apply quality assurance principles to ensure high quality output. Have SIGNIFICANT experience creating TWO (2) of the following: 1) DIRECTIVES, 2) POSITION PAPERS, and 3) POLICIES, at the BUSINESS level, including the ability to apply quality assurance principles to ensure high quality output. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to apply project management methodologies and techniques to manage complex IT projects. Applied project management methodologies and techniques to manage complex IT projects. These included, but are not limited to cost and schedule development, resource management, work breakdown structure (WBS), quality control, configuration control, system life cycle management, and scope management. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge and utilized ALL of the following project management methods and techniques: 1) cost and schedule development, 2) resource management, 3) work breakdown structure (WBS), 4) quality control, 5) configuration control, 6) system life cycle management, and 7) scope management for complex IT projects affecting the entire ORGANIZATION. Applied broad knowledge and utilized ALL of the following project management methods and techniques: 1) cost and schedule development, 2) resource management, 3) work breakdown structure (WBS), 4) quality control, 5) configuration control, 6) system life cycle management, and 7) scope management to manage complex IT projects affecting the entire ORGANIZATION. Applied broad knowledge and utilized THREE (3) to FIVE (5) of the following project management methods and techniques: 1) cost and schedule development, 2) resource management, 3) work breakdown structure (WBS), 4) quality control, 5) configuration control, 6) system life cycle management, and 7) scope management to manage complex IT projects affecting an entire BUSINESS UNIT. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).