Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates Completed performance appraisals for subordinates Documented employee performance Selected employees for promotion Interviewed job applicants Approved/denied leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training for subordinates Oversaw on the job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 2 Do you have experience supervising employees performing painting tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing painting tasks to ensure proper completion. As a team leader I have reviewed the work of employees performing painting tasks to ensure proper completion. I have provided instructions or demonstrations to employees performing painting tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who repair walls and decorative fixtures with plaster? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees who repair walls and decorative fixtures with plaster. I have reviewed the work of employees who repair walls and decorative fixtures with plaster as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees who repair walls and decorative fixtures with plaster. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 6 Have you performed journey level painting-refinishing work in a historically significant environment requiring meticulous attention to detail? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which tasks have you performed to ensure hazardous materials (lead paint, used stain rags, latex materials) were safely stored or disposed of? Answer to this question is required I verified that the material was compatible with the secondary storage container before I stored or disposed of it. I made sure specific materials were stored in a designated hazardous accumulation site. I ensured that non-compatible materials were kept separately. I made sure containers were tightly sealed. I followed secondary labeling requirements prior to storing/disposal. None of the above. 8 Which tools/equipment have you used to prep, paint, or apply decorative finishes to surfaces? Answer to this question is required Softening brushes/blending brushes Stippling brushes Sea sponges Floggers Graining combs Feathers Air brushes Squirrel tail brushes Gilding tips Agate burnishers Spectrophotometer None of the above 9 What types of specialized tools have you used to complete complex painting and decorative work assignments? Answer to this question is required Pumice Rottenstone Viscosity Graining Devices None of the above 10 What types of surfaces have you applied paint? Answer to this question is required Wood Metal Glass Synthetic Concrete Other surfaces None of the above 11 What kinds of special finishing techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Marbling Graining Texturing Glazing Stenciling Lettering Gold Leaf None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.