Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a thorough understanding and experience Cognitive Behavioral therapy as well as treatment interventions with the context of a formal treatment program. In addition, he/she must have expertise in the use of these interventions within the context of a formal treatment program in a correctional setting.&nbsp;He/she must also have expertise in identifying criminal thinking patterns and intervening appropriately to address criminal behavior. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated cognitive behavioral group therapy to dually diagnosed adult patients; and/or I have provided treatment interventions to dually diagnosed clients in individual outpatient therapy; and/or I have developed treatment plans for dually diagnosed adult patients in an outpatient setting. I have maintained a caseload of clients or offenders in a community setting providing group and individual interventions; and/or I have conducted intake services within a detention facility; and/or I have provided cognitive-behavioral based individual outpatient therapy to for adults involved with the court system. I have facilitated individual and group cognitive-behavioral interventions; and/or I have independently maintained a case-load of adult patients with co-occurring disorders developed and implemented treatment plan; and/or I have supervised master’s level clinicians providing cognitive behavioral treatment services to inmates on probation with a history of mental illness and/or substance abuse. None of the above. 6 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and process groups. He/she must have expertise in psychotherapy specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed individual treatment plans and facilitated psychotherapy addressing issues related to major mental illness and/or substance abuse; and/or I have conducted group psychotherapy based in cognitive-behavioral theory in an adult detention center. I have co-facilitated treatment for clients with issues related to antisocial attitudes and behaviors; and/or I have co-facilitated psychotherapy in a group setting; and/or I have provided individual or group therapy to individuals under court ordered supervision. I have provided treatment interventions to patients in a drug treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy in an inpatient psychiatric unit; and/or I have assisted in the provision of individual or group treatment which included mentally ill clients and those with substance abuse diagnoses. None of the above. 7 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer, and interpret psychological tests of adults in a correctional setting, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. He/she must have assessment expertise specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: PAI, MCMI, MMPI, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS; and/or I have conducted an initial interview/screening of clients for admission to a dual diagnosis treatment program; and/or I have completed psychosocial histories for adult patients entering a mental health or drug abuse treatment program. I have administered and interpreted a variety of personality tests; and/or I have administered and interpreted criminal thinking inventories; and/or I have on a quarterly basis, completed psychological assessments for the purposes of treatment planning for individuals enrolled in a formal treatment program. I have administered and interpreted assessments including, criminal thinking inventories, substance abuse assessments, brief intelligence screening, and personality inventories; and/or I have conducted mental status exam of new admissions to a mental health facility; and/or I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: GAMA, Shipley, NEO, PAI, MCMI, MMPI, T-JTA, SA-45, BSI, HCR-20, SVR-20, PCL-R, PCL-SV, PICTS, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS, TCU Assessment Instruments. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have assisted with suicidal clients referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have responded to a crisis situation involving a patient with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have supported peer(s) with defusing an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have collaborated or assisted non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have co-facilitated staff training related to suicide prevention and de-escalation; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures. In addition, he/she must have a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with research on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have conducted a literature review on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for a mentally ill inmate; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate. I have instructed treatment of criminal thinking to others; and/or I have taught education workshops and seminars related to mental illness and demonstrated to others; and/or I have thoroughly reviewed and interpreted the field of mental illness and criminal thinking. None of the above. 10 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator is responsible for the supervision and evaluation of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have provided advice/guidance to peers on work related issues; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have assisted with providing clinical training to peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have co-mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate clinical staff. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a thorough understanding and experience Cognitive Behavioral therapy as well as treatment interventions with the context of a formal treatment program. In addition, he/she must have expertise in the use of these interventions within the context of a formal treatment program in a correctional setting.&nbsp;He/she must also have expertise in identifying criminal thinking patterns and intervening appropriately to address criminal behavior. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a caseload of clients or offenders in a community setting providing group and individual interventions; and/or I have conducted intake services within a detention facility; and/or I have provided cognitive-behavioral based individual outpatient therapy to for adults involved with the court system. I have facilitated individual and group cognitive-behavioral interventions; and/or I have independently maintained a case-load of adult patients with co-occurring disorders developed and implemented treatment plan; and/or I have supervised master’s level clinicians providing cognitive behavioral treatment services to inmates on probation with a history of mental illness and/or substance abuse. I have coordinated and administered an inpatient treatment program for substance abuse offenders; and/or I have clinically supervised doctoral and master level clinicians within a cognitive behavioral treatment program for offenders diagnosed with antisocial attitudes and behaviors, substance abuse, and/or mental illnesses; and/or I have supervised master’s level clinicians providing cognitive behavioral treatment services to inmates on probation with a history of mental illness and/or substance abuse. None of the above. 6 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and process groups. He/she must have expertise in psychotherapy specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed individual treatment plans and facilitated psychotherapy addressing issues related to major mental illness and/or substance abuse; and/or I have conducted group psychotherapy based in cognitive-behavioral theory in an adult detention center. I have co-facilitated treatment for clients with issues related to antisocial attitudes and behaviors; and/or I have co-facilitated psychotherapy in a group setting; and/or I have provided individual or group therapy to individuals under court ordered supervision. I have conducted educational groups, individual therapy, and process groups in a residential treatment program in a correctional facility with adult offenders; and/or I have provided individual, process and group treatment in a correctional or inpatient adult setting; and/or I have written treatment plans and provided evidence based psychological interventions to dual diagnosed adult offenders. None of the above. 7 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer, and interpret psychological tests of adults in a correctional setting, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. He/she must have assessment expertise specific to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: PAI, MCMI, MMPI, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS; and/or I have conducted an initial interview/screening of clients for admission to a dual diagnosis treatment program; and/or I have completed psychosocial histories for adult patients entering a mental health or drug abuse treatment program. I have administered and interpreted a variety of personality tests; and/or I have administered and interpreted criminal thinking inventories; and/or I have on a quarterly basis, completed psychological assessments for the purposes of treatment planning for individuals enrolled in a formal treatment program. I have administered and interpreted a variety of objective, and cognitive assessment protocols weekly; and/or I have administered, scored, and interpreted psychological assessments, used the assessment data to write a comprehensive clinical conceptualization and diagnostic profile on a weekly basis; and/or I have on a weekly basis, completed comprehensive psychological assessments for the purposes of treatment planning for individuals enrolled in a formal treatment program. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide utilizing cognitive-behavioral interventions for an inmate on suicide watch; and/or I have responded to an adult offender in experiencing a psychotic break, assessed referral needs, and de-escalated situation; and/or I have facilitated training to a variety of correctional staff in confrontation avoidance and de-escalation tactics. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have co-facilitated staff training related to suicide prevention and de-escalation; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures. In addition, he/she must have a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the special population targeted in the treatment program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with research on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have designed a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of an adult treatment program in a correctional setting or long-term care facility; and/or I have conducted a literature review on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) diagnosis and developed a treatment protocol for incarcerated or long-term care adults with several mental illness which was implemented. I have conducted a literature review on criminality, substance abuse, or adjustment to incarceration; and/or I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for a mentally ill inmate; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive inmate. None of the above. 10 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator is responsible for the supervision and evaluation of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with providing clinical training to peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have co-mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate clinical staff. I have provided clinical training, supervision, and mentoring to staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical work of staff to ensure compliance with community standards and best clinical practices; and/or I have implemented performance improvement plans as an administrator and clinical supervisor. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).