Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 1 [331] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-06 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [8772] Select the statement that best describes your experience coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions. Answer to this question is required I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; complete reports for delinquent correspondence, prepares status reminders, and insure for proper approvals/signatures; follow-up on pending or required correspondence actions. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone calls and referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, maintaining databases, correcting correspondence, and preparing reports. I typically provide support to specialists on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, answering requests, and prepares reports. None of the above. 3 [8773] Select the statement that best describes your experience reviewing a variety of forms and documents for accuracy and completeness in compliance with applicable regulations and policies. Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for the regular review of a variety of Federal forms and documents that have been completed by myself and other staff for accuracy and completeness in compliance with regulations and policies. I have been responsible for the regular review of a variety of forms and documents that have been completed by myself and other staff for accuracy and completeness in compliance with regulations and policies. I have been responsible for reviewing some forms and documents for completion for accuracy in compliance with regulations and polices. I have been responsible for reviewing forms and documents for completion for accuracy in compliance with regulations and policies. None of the above. 4 [3322] Select the statement that best describes your experience in following guidelines, procedures and/or directives in providing administrative support to an office. Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience providing administrative support to an office. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. I typically provide support to specialists on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, answering requests, and prepares reports. I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, maintaining databases, correcting correspondence, and preparing reports. I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; complete reports for delinquent correspondence, prepare status reminders, and insure for proper approvals/signatures; follow-up on pending or required correspondence actions. 5 [8775] Have you ever worked in an Admissions Office at a college or University? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [58640] Select each of the administrative duties you have performed as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Made arrangements for meetings, conference rooms, conference calls, and video-teleconference meetings. Created timecards in CASTLE to accurately indicate work schedules, leave, and telework. Handled packaging, mailing, and other activities necessary to send/deliver correspondence and/or notices of decisions to the appropriate parties and governmental officials. Prepared Purchase Requests for training, supplies, and other items for the HCC-SO office. Greeted office visitors. Routed correspondence. Answered office telephone, routed calls, and recorded messages. Received deliveries. Used electronic system to obtain and route concurrence packages. None of the above. 7 [24228] Select the choice(s) that describe(s) your typical approach in providing services and/or expertise to external persons, organizations or entities. Answer to this question is required I typically respond to inquiries and requests in a timely and thorough fashion. I anticipate customer/client needs and proactively reach out to offer help or suggestions. I prepare briefings for internal management or external partners. I prepare responses to inquiries and requests for management. I prepare management responses to Federal and state elected officials. I prepare and implement trainings and educational opportunities for internal and external persons, organizations or entities. None of the above. 8 [31130] Select the statement that is most applicable to how you follow up on customer requests or complaints. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 [8781] Select the software applications you are proficient with in accomplishing day-to-day office functions (proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the software`s functionality/capabilities). Answer to this question is required Project management systems Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Power Point Database management E-mail (Exchange, Outlook, etc.) Internet Explorer/Netscape None of the above 10 [21468] Select the correspondence tasks you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required Search files, documents, or other sources for informational materials Search for and locate records presumed lost or misplaced Conduct personal inquiries or searches to obtain information from a number of different offices and personnel Collect, prepare, and format data for ad hoc reporting Prepare interim responses to inquiries from the general public Plan, coordinate, and monitor action items and deadlines Develop and implement new or revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs Analyze proposed and existing processes and methods, identify problems or issues, devise options, and recommend solutions None of the above 11 [3203] Do you have experience maintaining manual and/or automated filing systems in an office environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 [50932] Choose the statement below that best describes your experience in following guidelines, procedures and/or directives to provide administrative support to an office. Answer to this question is required I have limited experience following guidelines, procedures and/or directives to provide administrative support to an office. I have demonstrated experience following basic procedures for performing administrative duties that do not allow for interpretation. If an unusual or new situation arises, I ask another employee for guidance in finding the answer. I have demonstrated experience following general guidelines and procedures for performing administrative duties that involve some interpretation and allow for specifics to be designed depending on needs of the office. If a new or unusual situation arises, I research policies and procedures in order to find answers and only ask other employees for guidance if the answer cannot be found. I have demonstrated experience following guidelines and procedures for performing administrative duties that involve interpretation and allow for specifics to be designed depending on needs of the office. If a new or unusual situation arises, I independently research policies and procedures in order to find answers and interpretation is accepted by senior employees, supervisor, or manager. I have demonstrated experience following guidelines and procedures for performing administrative duties that involve interpretation and allow for specifics to be designed depending on needs of the office. If a new or unusual situation arises, I independently research policies and procedures in order to find answers and interpretation is accepted by senior employees, supervisor, or manager. I have also trained others OR others have consulted me in the performance of administrative guidelines, procedures, and/or directives. None of the above. Grade: 07 1 [332] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [8772] Select the statement that best describes your experience coordinating administrative work of day-to-day office functions. Answer to this question is required I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; complete reports for delinquent correspondence, prepares status reminders, and insure for proper approvals/signatures; follow-up on pending or required correspondence actions. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone calls and referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, maintaining databases, correcting correspondence, and preparing reports. I typically provide support to specialists on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, answering requests, and prepares reports. None of the above. 3 [8773] Select the statement that best describes your experience reviewing a variety of forms and documents for accuracy and completeness in compliance with applicable regulations and policies. Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for the regular review of a variety of Federal forms and documents that have been completed by myself and other staff for accuracy and completeness in compliance with regulations and policies. I have been responsible for the regular review of a variety of forms and documents that have been completed by myself and other staff for accuracy and completeness in compliance with regulations and policies. I have been responsible for reviewing some forms and documents for completion for accuracy in compliance with regulations and polices. I have been responsible for reviewing forms and documents for completion for accuracy in compliance with regulations and policies. None of the above. 4 [3322] Select the statement that best describes your experience in following guidelines, procedures and/or directives in providing administrative support to an office. Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience providing administrative support to an office. I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements. I typically provide support to specialists on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, answering requests, and prepares reports. I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phone, referring calls, maintaining files, directing visitors or other employees to appropriate office or person for assistance, maintaining databases, correcting correspondence, and preparing reports. I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring persons to appropriate subject matter personnel; complete reports for delinquent correspondence, prepare status reminders, and insure for proper approvals/signatures; follow-up on pending or required correspondence actions. 5 [8775] Have you ever worked in an Admissions Office at a college or University? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [58640] Select each of the administrative duties you have performed as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Made arrangements for meetings, conference rooms, conference calls, and video-teleconference meetings. Created timecards in CASTLE to accurately indicate work schedules, leave, and telework. Handled packaging, mailing, and other activities necessary to send/deliver correspondence and/or notices of decisions to the appropriate parties and governmental officials. Prepared Purchase Requests for training, supplies, and other items for the HCC-SO office. Greeted office visitors. Routed correspondence. Answered office telephone, routed calls, and recorded messages. Received deliveries. Used electronic system to obtain and route concurrence packages. None of the above. 7 [30548] Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with correspondence procedures. Answer to this question is required Screen incoming mail and distribute to appropriate staff members Log in and records action items Design new correspondence procedures Implement new or revised correspondence procedures Type official correspondence, various forms, and reports using word processing equipment Recommend new administrative or record-keeping procedures Implement new administrative or record-keeping procedures Review or edit materials for completeness, accuracy and clarity Review or edit materials for format and syntax Review or edit materials for appropriate clearances Drafts written replies to general inquiries Prepare technical correspondence Prepare or review documents of a sensitive or confidential nature Prepare letters, memorandums, reports and other non-technical correspondence Write procedural guidance for correspondence Manages controlled and congressional correspondence None of the above 8 [7696] Select the written material(s) that you have produced as a regular part of your job in a writing/editing/correspondence control environment. Answer to this question is required I have drafted reports, memoranda and correspondence for signature by a higher-level official. I have provided writing and editing support for briefings, meetings, conferences and special projects. I have produced draft responses to correspondence in a clear, logical, concise manner for varied audiences. I have drafted correspondence policy and procedural material for dissemination to headquarters, field or operating level components. I have prepared written correspondence status reports for executive level review. I have edited executive level correspondence, talking points and briefing papers written by other organizational staff. None of the above. 9 [24228] Select the choice(s) that describe(s) your typical approach in providing services and/or expertise to external persons, organizations or entities. Answer to this question is required I typically respond to inquiries and requests in a timely and thorough fashion. I anticipate customer/client needs and proactively reach out to offer help or suggestions. I prepare briefings for internal management or external partners. I prepare responses to inquiries and requests for management. I prepare management responses to Federal and state elected officials. I prepare and implement trainings and educational opportunities for internal and external persons, organizations or entities. None of the above. 10 [31130] Select the statement that is most applicable to how you follow up on customer requests or complaints. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 [65822] Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience supporting customers. Answer to this question is required I have answered questions regarding standard procedures. I have verified documented customer requirements. I have identified customer requirements. I have identified possible technical challenges. I have discussed approaches to address customer service requirements. I have enforced compliance with policies or procedures. I have provided feedback on customer documentation. I have referred difficult or uncooperative customers to a supervisor or manager. I have responded to difficult or uncooperative customers (or had difficult or uncooperative customers referred to me). None of the above. 12 [8781] Select the software applications you are proficient with in accomplishing day-to-day office functions (proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the software`s functionality/capabilities). Answer to this question is required Project management systems Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Power Point Database management E-mail (Exchange, Outlook, etc.) Internet Explorer/Netscape None of the above 13 [21468] Select the correspondence tasks you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required Search files, documents, or other sources for informational materials Search for and locate records presumed lost or misplaced Conduct personal inquiries or searches to obtain information from a number of different offices and personnel Collect, prepare, and format data for ad hoc reporting Prepare interim responses to inquiries from the general public Plan, coordinate, and monitor action items and deadlines Develop and implement new or revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs Analyze proposed and existing processes and methods, identify problems or issues, devise options, and recommend solutions None of the above 14 [3203] Do you have experience maintaining manual and/or automated filing systems in an office environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 [3737] Select the response that best describes your experience prioritizing work assignments and complying with assignment deadlines. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in prioritizing work assignments and complying with assignment deadlines. I have had education or training in prioritizing work assignments and complying with assignment deadlines, but have not yet used it on the job. I have experience prioritizing work assignments and complying with assignment deadlines with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have experience prioritizing work assignments and complying with assignment deadlines as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience prioritizing work assignments and complying with assignment deadlines as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in prioritizing work assignments and complying with assignment deadlines. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 16 [50932] Choose the statement below that best describes your experience in following guidelines, procedures and/or directives to provide administrative support to an office. Answer to this question is required I have limited experience following guidelines, procedures and/or directives to provide administrative support to an office. I have demonstrated experience following basic procedures for performing administrative duties that do not allow for interpretation. If an unusual or new situation arises, I ask another employee for guidance in finding the answer. I have demonstrated experience following general guidelines and procedures for performing administrative duties that involve some interpretation and allow for specifics to be designed depending on needs of the office. If a new or unusual situation arises, I research policies and procedures in order to find answers and only ask other employees for guidance if the answer cannot be found. I have demonstrated experience following guidelines and procedures for performing administrative duties that involve interpretation and allow for specifics to be designed depending on needs of the office. If a new or unusual situation arises, I independently research policies and procedures in order to find answers and interpretation is accepted by senior employees, supervisor, or manager. I have demonstrated experience following guidelines and procedures for performing administrative duties that involve interpretation and allow for specifics to be designed depending on needs of the office. If a new or unusual situation arises, I independently research policies and procedures in order to find answers and interpretation is accepted by senior employees, supervisor, or manager. I have also trained others OR others have consulted me in the performance of administrative guidelines, procedures, and/or directives. None of the above. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 9.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 9.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 9.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).