Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to this position. OR A combination of education and experience--courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in A above. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Education Program Specialist contacts include officials in institutions, regions, other agencies, individuals from national organizations, state and local correctional education administrators, agency Executive Staff, Central Office administrators, peers, regional staff, wardens, associate wardens, department heads, institution and Central Office staff, and representatives of state/local government representatives. These contacts include agency and institution Executive Staff, regional and branch administrators, and all other staff agency wide. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented Education/Recreation discipline on a regional or national work group; and/or I have presented adult education or adult correctional education issues as a community involvement committee member; and/or I have led community-based meetings to promote agency’s/organization’s mission and goals; and/or I have solved internal Education or Recreation departmental issues by communicating will all parties involved; and/or I have communicated finding of an Education/Recreation staff assist or special project visit to management officials, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have taught a variety of adult continuing education, literacy, leisure/wellness subjects; and/or I have briefed department/office/institution Executive Staff on issues within specific disciplines; and/or I have provided input during an audit group or corrective action team after deficiencies or need for corrective actions were identified; and/or I have provided formal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have coordinated facility inspections; and/or I have conducted a training seminar; and/or I have chaired division, sectional departmental meetings; and/or I have given presentations to staff; and/or I have conducted interviews with inmates/students/clients. None of the above. 6 The Education Program Specialist prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, presentations/briefings for field staff, Executive Staff, community-based organizations, Department of Education officials or other federal agency personnel and national groups/organizations, etc. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written wrote Executive Staff papers; and/or I have developed national initiative or policy for education programs which were adopted for use by agency or institution; and/or I have prepared quarterly status briefing which address educational or recreational accomplishments and policy compliance; and/or I have provided written updates on pending education or recreation strategic goals, new initiatives, or departmental accomplishments; and/or I have prepared budget request packages for presentation before the budget committee; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation which was submitted without change; and/or I have written materials used in Education/Recreation management training courses. I have written memorandums to inmates/staff to advise them of new policies or procedures; and/or I have composed a press release; and/or I have prepared general status reports for upper management; and/or I have prepared training materials for a regional conference for students, and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates; and/or I have prepared written justification for staff awards. I have written one type of academic, instructional technique, theory or subject matter lesson; and/or I have written routine/non-routine memorandums for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed and provided recommendations on written material of subordinates and peers for clarity, grammar and content; and/or I have summarized a research proposal or study. None of the above. 7 The Education Program Specialist is responsible for program and policy development, monitoring, and implementation in the area of education, occupational training, recreation, and leisure time training in detention/correctional facilities for the Bureau of Prisons. Work may involve isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies. Conclusions are supplemented with credible information from a variety of sources and will be discussed with the Administrator, Assistant Administrator, or top-level staff and recommend solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined workforce characteristics or budget utilization by the evaluation or statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key comparable external software indicators/available information to compare operations of similar correctional facilities/organizations; and/or I have actively participated on a section workgroup for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. I have provided recommendations in regards to the establishment or modification of division/unit/programs, plans, and/or policies; and/or I have evaluated current unit/division/agency operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity, and effectiveness of programs; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed program review/operational reviews/special site visits and ensured corrective action(s) were initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit budget to optimize staffing or financial utilization plans and goals. I have assisted in gathering data used to identify trends; and/or I have reviewed statistical reports and provided recommendations based on the report’s findings; and/or I have worked as a member of a group tasked with implementing a new policy or procedure. None of the above. 8 The Education Program Specialist must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals for the Bureau of Prisons in order to effectively carryout primary responsibilities and for evaluating programs in a correctional institution. It is imperative that he/she possess knowledge of the correctional policies within the Federal Prison System in order to advise and inform. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated training for visual searches of inmate work or living areas; and/or I have presented departmental information during Annual Training; and/or I have noticed atypical behavior in an inmate and took appropriate corrective action. I have formulated institution or regional policy; and/or I have identified violation of the law or regulations made by individuals in a prison facility and took appropriate action; and/or I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have conducted Education/Recreation management assessments, institution character profile, staff assistance visits at institution. I have documented rounds, reported pertinent incidences and submitted final reports; and/or I have presented Introduction to Correctional Techniques (Phase I) training or New Employee Orientation to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have conducted an internal audit/program or operational review; and/or I have reviewed inmate incident reports and made appropriate sanctioning recommendations; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. None of the above. 9 The Education Program Specialist must have extensive knowledge of the various philosophies and methods of teaching and be able to use this knowledge to motivate and assist education field staff with efforts towards meeting the reentry needs of the inmate population. He/she must also have a comprehensive knowledge of all areas of the education and leisure programs in order to discern trends and systemic concerns which require further analysis. Thorough knowledge of policy, statutes, directives and regulations which govern all aspects of Education and Recreation are necessary for developing model programs based on the latest technology and instructional methods and materials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided guidance to Federal agencies regarding proposed regulations; and/or I have updated/revised policies and/or programs based on changes in legislation; and/or I have adjusted instructional deliveries and techniques to meet unique learning methods of students; and/or I have taught current and effective teaching techniques, theories, and learning materials for adult education or adult correctional education. I have conducted a training session using one style of teaching technique such as lecturing; and/or I have prepared briefing materials using one theory of learning or teaching technique; and/or I have monitored department expenditures and reporting requirements to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have communicated the mission of education and leisure discipline to various community organizations. I have established a literacy program; and/or I have reviewed and critiqued curriculums and lesson plans using one theory of learning or teaching technique; and/or I have worked with one group of students at a time; and/or I have used established training materials to inform education staff of recent changes in policy or law. None of the above. 10 The Education Program Specialist is responsible for the monitoring and development of institution, regional, and system-wide programs in education, occupational training, recreation, and leisure time programs. He/she must stay abreast of pending and completed research, strategic planning, external and community-based initiatives. He/she must maintain state of the art knowledge about education and recreation programs. He/she must stay current on the various philosophies, models, and methods of correctional education and recreation, and be able to develop policy and motivate field staff to implement sound correctional programs meeting community standards and supporting the agency's reentry missions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and evaluated current educational or leisure operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity, or morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local polices or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed labor market trends and implemented programs designed to improve post-release employability for inmates; and/or I have reviewed program review/operational reviews and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have developed a national or regional program adopted for use. I have conducted workshops and assisted individuals with developing Education or Recreation programs; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by Financial Management; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office; and/or I have managed workload and completed projects in accordance with supervisory expectations; and/or I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have recommended ideas for consideration to streamline a current process. I have determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends; and/or I have assisted in developing local leisure/wellness or adult academic program; and/or I have prioritized work based on last minute assignments or staff shortages; and/or I have monitored department expenditures and reporting requirements to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have followed agency policy in handling inmate programs; and/or I have monitored established operations within the education/recreation program/department. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).