Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience supporting human capital program processes, including student loan repayment programs, onboarding and awards? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you advised staff and management on human capital policies and procedures to keep an organization informed and in compliance with rules and regulations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the statement that best describes your experience with entering data accurately into computer database systems or spreadsheet programs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience related to program management. I have completed education or training related to program management but I have not applied it on the job. I have assisted program managers with assigned tasks to help manage projects. I have implemented plans developed by others and made recommendations for changes when needed. I have designed programs and methodologies to achieve project goals. 5 Select the statements that describe your presentation/communication experience (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled information and presented in simple, straightforward terms for a variety of audiences. None of the above. 6 Please select the computer software applications you have used in an office environment. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Excel or comparable Microsoft Word or comparable Microsoft PowerPoint or comparable Microsoft Outlook or comparable Microsoft Access or comparable Microsoft Teams Sharepoint None of the above 7 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained program goals and policies to a variety of individuals from within the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives across the agency or organization. Clarified policy requirements to a variety of individuals from within the agency or organization. Responded to requests for information from senior leadership. None of the above. 8 Which documents and/or business processes have you written? Answer to this question is required Program Evaluation Reports Standard Operating Procedures Process Improvement Plans Recommendations for operational changes On-Line Material Printed Material None of the above 9 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identified relevant and important information Generated solution ideas Developed recommendations None of the above 10 Select the option that best describes your experience providing briefings and findings to management. Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have given supervisors or managers informal updates. I have given formal structured presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings. I have given formal structured presentations of material that was highly technical or sensitive. 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.