Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-07 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-08 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-08 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. You do not need to compete for this job if you are a GL/GS-08 or higher or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08.&nbsp; You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. As of July 31, 2022, &nbsp;the promotion potential of all Correctional Officers (GL/GS-05/06), Seniors Officers (GL/GS-07) has been reclassified to a Senior Officer Specialist (GL/GS-08). If you are a GL/GS-0007-05, 06, 07 or 08 (Correctional Officer, Senior Officer or Senior Officer Specialist) as of July 31, 2022 , YOU DO NOT NEED TO COMPETE for this job. Please select one of the answers below in the question to follow: Yes, I am currently at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-08 level without my having to compete. NOTE : If you were previously a Correctional Officer GL/GS-0007-05/06/07 and vacated the position prior to July 31, 2022 , you would NOT meet the career ladder GL/GS-08 of this position and therefore will need to compete for the GL/GS-08. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-07 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-08 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Recycling Technician must meet and deal with people of differing backgrounds and behavioral patterns. They deal with a variety of individuals including assigned inmates, co-workers/other staff, institution management, equipment and commodities vendors and representatives, contractors, and staff from other institutions. The Recycling Technician interacts with people of varying backgrounds in order to plan and coordinate work, provide policy guidance, advise or train, and convey available services of the Recycling Program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given instructions on the proper way to handle machinery used; and/or I have clarified the Emergency Contingency Plan for the institution; and/or I have used the safety manual to provide basic responses to questions pertaining to safety related issues; and/or I have conducted a facility tour for a small group of new staff; and/or I have given an oral presentation during a department meeting or staff recall; and/or I have answered routine inquiries received from internal personnel. I have issued safety handbooks and answered basic questions; and/or I have given instructions on the proper use of protective work gear; and/or I have provided clarification on how to safely perform duties related to recycling equipment; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process; and/or I have conveyed technical specialty information to others; and/or I have provided specific instructions to an inmate work detail; and/or I have presented personnel orientation to new staff; and/or I have given orientation instructions to new inmates. I have given a lecture to persuade, convince and encourage voluntary compliance by management and staff on new recycling procedures or safety rules/procedures; and/or I have served as contact person for entities in the local community that have partnerships with the institution for processing recyclable materials or equivalent; and/or I have served as a staff advisor concerning recycling methods and procedure to include preparation of materials, sorting and shipping methods; and/or I have conducted training sessions for staff during scheduled meetings; and/or I have trained staff on recycling policies and procedures; and/or I have facilitated a safety-related training session during Institution Familiarization, Admission and Orientation, or New Employee Orientation; and/or I have coordinated delivery schedules; and/or I have resolved outstanding discrepancy with vendor/client, resulting in the receipt of merchandise or appropriate credit. None of the above. 5 The Recycling Technician must be able to analyze, interpret and apply a wide range of information in order to prepare correspondence and complex technical reports in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with drafting a memorandum to staff members relaying recycling or safety information; and/or I have assisted with typing various inspection reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing informational memorandums. I have submitted safety or environmental reports to central and regional offices; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information related to a recycling or safety issue; and/or I have prepared weekly status reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing graphs and charts outlining production flow status or requirements; and/or I have prepared inner-office memorandums relaying recycling or factory information; and/or I have maintained activity log on projects assigned. I have drafted memorandum to staff members relaying recycling or safety information; and/or I have prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have prepared informational memorandums; and/or I have communicated information via electronic mail; and/or I have input data into an established program or spreadsheet. None of the above. 6 The Recycling Technician must be able to plan, organize, and use time and resources effectively to coordinate the activities related to the recycling program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have inventoried and maintained supplies necessary to keep recycling program continuously operating; and/or I have monitored the scrap metal collection and storage areas; and/or I have maintained and accounted for recycling program files and records in accordance with policy; and/or I have made recommendation on the long range planning of recycling programs that promote a safe environment for employees and inmates, etc.; and/or I have established and maintained a tracking system for the recycling program; and/or I have planned and organized the operation for a recycling program. I have assisted with inventorying and maintaining supplies necessary to keep recycling program continuously operating; and/or I have assisted with maintaining and accounting for recycling program files and records in accordance with policy; and/or I have assisted in establishing and maintaining a tracking system for the recycling program; and/or I have assisted with the planning and organization of recycling program operation. I have performed routine filing and maintenance of records; and/or I have prioritized incoming information and requested assistance when needed to complete assigned tasks; and/or I have collected information used in program planning and organization. None of the above. 7 The Recycling Technician must be able to direct, supervise and motivate groups of inmates from complex backgrounds and cultures.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have escorted inmates to call outs, as instructed; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy, through the workday; and/or I have assisted inmates in resolving problems; and/or I have worked as a dormitory officer. I have monitored subordinates/inmates to determine if they followed instructions; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to lower-level staff in resolving problems. I have approved the work assignments of inmates; and/or I have prepared and discussed performance log entries with inmate workforce; and/or I have trained cooperative inmates in proper work procedures; and/or I have supervised an inmate work detail in collection, sorting, and bundling of recyclable materials; and/or I have provided Annual Refresher Training and Inmate Admission and Orientation or equivalent. None of the above. 8 The Recycling Technician must be knowledgeable of the regulations, executive orders and policies pertaining to pollution control, recycling, and environmental compliance. He/she assists in developing and identifying aspects and impacts of the activities for the recycling program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved a noted discrepancy and initiated corrective action in order to comply with policy requirements; and/or I have interpreted laws, regulations and policy relating to the recycling program; and/or I have participated in program or operational review of a safety or recycling area/department; and/or I have assisted in developing strategies to reduce toxic chemical and hazardous substances; and/or I have responded to external inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have monitored vital functions in accordance with Program Review guidelines; and/or I have assisted with programs to reduce adverse impacts to the natural environment, such as life cycle analysis, accountability, and funding policies to promote the use of pollution prevention, etc. I have responded to internal inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have utilized available resources to maintain currency of policy and procedures; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others to ensure policy requirements were adhered to. I have answered general program areas questions received; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with department/bureau policy; and/or I have discussed routine procedure with newly detailed inmates. None of the above. 9 The Recycling Technician must have an understanding of the operation equipment related to collecting and processing recycling materials. He/she oversees work and training concerned with receiving, handling, storing material, transporting of material, and equipment calibration of various pieces equipment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in providing group training to inmates on basic safety talks and the proper way to operate warehousing equipment, (i.e., forklift, pallet jacks, balers and hand tools); and/or I have completed research and recommended purchasing of equipment; and/or I have assisted in setting up new equipment and scheduling of maintenance schedules; and/or I have assisted the Safety Manager with the implementation of the International Organization Standardization Environmental Management Systems or equivalent. I have operated a forklift; and/or I have operated a pallet jack/baler; and/or I have provided daily guidance to inmate work detail in the area of proper equipment operation and safety issues. I have read and understood safety directions; and/or I have used hand tools and taught others how to properly and safely use tools; and/or I have guided inmate workers on how to choose appropriate tool for specific task. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).