Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Developed/updated standards or specifications for the network infrastructure. Ensures all computer hardware, telecommunications equipment, and local and wide area networking technology is: compatible, efficient, cost-effective, and secure. Maintained LAN and WAN communications hardware or mainframe system hardware. Developed policy or a budgetary plan that impacted an enterprise program/office. Prepared a highly technical report/document related to IT. Customer Service : Wrote materials for or developed IT training courses. Served as liaison with external DOJ entities (e.g. the Justice Data Centers (department level) locations) and with external non-DOJ entities (e.g. GSA automated Data and Telecommunications Service). Functioned as a team leader for a workgroup/task force in developing recommendations for new IT policy. Acted as a project leader for a major project involving multiple program areas, policies or departments. Prepared briefing materials on a sensitive IT issue for review and discussion by BOP senior management. Oral Communication : Attended meetings and conferences and participated on interagency workgroups. Participated on a workgroup or project team which included members of the executive/senior staff for component and/or other agencies. Gave presentations to the executive/senior staff/top management of an organization. Had regular contact in a professional IT capacity with senior agency staff within and outside the division and with outside vendors resulting in the satisfaction of division or national needs or goals Coordinated multi-disciplinary discussions in accordance with management procedures Presented a position paper on an IT initiative during a senior planning meeting Assisted in representing the agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff on an IT related issue. Problem Solving : Provided end-to-end troubleshooting of the component's (BOP's) enterprises network infrastructure (includes data communications for all BOP institutions, regional offices, CCM's and the Central Office). Served as a member of a committee or task force addressing IT issues affecting the organization or agency. Participated in the resolution of IT departmental or program issues providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. 1 In addition, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under the special hiring authority for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Branch Chief develops, designs, plans, tests, and maintains national Information Technology programs and related resources, including: the development of policies and plans for the agency's information technology and network environment; meeting with Bureau of Prisons program areas to develop specific plans for their information technology participation or requirements on various information technology initiatives; development of training of Bureau of Prison staff on information technology applications, information technology administration and working with technology; meeting with other information technology staff to address and resolve technical problems and discuss new directions and technology. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated meetings with upper level professionals to include agency staff, and may also include staff members of Federal Law Enforcement agencies and Department of Justice employees, with the potential for disparate views; and/or I have managed personal staff as well as other staff both from within the organization or from other organizations whose involvement is needed to carry out tasks related to agency-wide information technology initiatives or issues; and/or I have independently implemented and completed special technology-related tasks (including highly complex and/or sensitive tasks) that involved coordination within the organization and/or other organizations; and/or I have persuaded outside entities to accept the agency’s position on significant/controversial information technology issues; and/or I have developed information technology policy that impacted several organizational components. I have developed local policy for system security or administration of an application or system; and/or I have coordinated sensitive discussions in accordance with management procedures; and/or I have led a project for a workgroup/task force in developing an application or system; and/or I have developed local resource plans for staffing the program area/department. I have coordinated multi-discipline discussions at the local level in accordance with management procedures; and/or I have functioned as a team leader for a workgroup/task force in developing recommendations for new policy; and/or I have presented a local position paper on a streamlined procedure during a program area meeting; and/or I have provided IT strategic planning updates during regional meetings; and/or I have developed policy or a budgetary plan that impacted the local program/office; and/or I have led a local project involving a single program area or department. None of the above. 5 The Branch Chief coordinates activities related to the Bureau of Prisons information technology environment, setting and enforcing information technology policy, procedures, and standards. He/she works closely with the Justice Management Division, other Department of Justice components, and Bureau of Prisons program areas at all Bureau of Prisons sites to develop information products, applications, and services that will increase efficiency and empower staff at all levels. He/she also coordinates with relevant Department of Justice oversight staff to ensure compliance with Department of Justice information technology architecture standards and security policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained equipment to ensure compatibility and connectivity of local area network or mainframe hardware; and/or I have designed, installed or maintained local area network communications hardware or mainframe system hardware; and/or I have designed or installed personal computer application software or database software routines for multiple users; and/or I have served as a local authority in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. I have defined and updated specifications for compatibility and connectivity of wide area network or large-scale mainframe hardware; and/or I have designed, installed or maintained wide areas network communications hardware or mainframe systems or hardware; and/or I have designed personal computer application software or database software routines for the enterprise; and/or I have served as the agency subject matter expert in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems on a Department of Justice/Justice Management Division (DOJ/JMD) workgroup; and/or I have designed or led a web-based enterprise application project. I have provided minor adjustments or maintenance on a local area network or a mainframe system; and/or I have maintained local area network communications hardware or mainframe system hardware; and/or I have installed personal computer application software or database software routines for use; and/or I have provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. None of the above. 6 The Branch Chief is responsible for information technology planning and management functions for the program responsibilities, including developing and maintaining plans related to enterprise architecture, information technology strategic initiatives, human resource workforce planning, and the use and application of future technologies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided guidance to staff in the area of database development and planning; and/or I have reviewed and provided comments on draft policy with regard to implementing or using an application or new technology; and/or I have developed materials used in management or computer training courses; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments. I have provided technical expertise to local management staff in the area of system development and planning; and/or I have developed local guidance for program operation or use; and/or I have evaluated plans for an advanced system or network technology or program; and/or I have drafted local policy with regard to implementing or using information technology systems and/or programs. I have studied long-range agency needs and acted as an expert advisor to executive or top-level management staff in the area of system or network development and trends; and/or I have evaluated overall plans for information technology systems, applications, networks or programs; and/or I have developed department/agency policy or national standards to implement or use networks, systems or programs. None of the above. 7 The Branch Chief is responsible for the preparation of Department of Justice briefing materials, Executive Staff papers, correspondence, analyses of information technology projects, executive presentations, and other written documents. The Branch Chief must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate complex information technology related information to targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to program review/comparable external audit evaluators concerning information technology procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper justifying information technology practice made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural guide explaining information technology related laws, regulations, etc., in laymen terms; and/or I have authored an article on a human resource issue for a national publication; and/or I have responded to congressional and judicial inquiries regarding a major segment of an information technology program or process; and/or I have prepared strategic plans which contributed to agency guidelines; and/or I have authored response reports to oversight organizations such as General Services Administration, Department of Justice and Office of Management and Budget. I have written documentation which justified agency/institution/organization action during a third party hearing; and/or I have independently written and prepared technical documentation and correspondence which were utilized without change; and/or I have written materials used in information technology training courses; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments; and/or I have prepared statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have documented findings as a participant of a program review or comparable external audit; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document. I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have designed and implemented a needs assessment plan for agency/organization staffing levels; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical information technology issues or proposals having national impact; and/or I have composed national information technology policy outlining the implementation and requirements for a new agency wide initiative or program; and/or I have finalized an executive analysis paper regarding potential information technology initiatives; and/or I have responded to government information technology issues proposed by draft legislation or national vendor requirements; and/or I have prepared subject matter content through outlines or lesson plans for agency wide information technology conferences. None of the above. 8 The Branch Chief communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/ organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate and/or persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. The Branch Chief maintains extensive liaison with the Department of Justice and other agencies with respect to Department of Justice and Bureau of Prisons websites and the implementation of new hardware and software. He/she also coordinates with software and hardware vendors for planning and support, as well as monitors the activities of outside contractors and vendors. The Branch Chief routinely serves as an information technology liaison between the division and other Bureau of Prisons components. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with other federal agency personnel to provide briefings or training; and/or I have led an internal local planning committee; and/or I have coordinated local hiring events to promote the agency and recruit applicants; and/or I have provided input during union negotiations to update existing policies or practices; and/or I have resolved internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/chief executive officer, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. I have presented an oral briefing at the department level on issues having major organization/agency impact; and/or I have negotiated on the agency’s behalf on interagency workgroups with other federal and state agencies to develop agency wide and government wide information technology policy initiatives and systems; and/or I have chaired workgroups or project teams tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization wide programs; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference and/or via an executive staff meeting; and/or I have interacted with senior staff of national vendors to develop standards, specifications or policies. I have actively participated on a workgroup or project team which included members of the executive staff in an organization or other agencies to promote the agency or facility; and/or I have assisted in representing the agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have given informal presentations to the executive staff/top management of an agency/organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).