Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Food Services Assistant performs clerical services for the Food Services Department and works with Central Office, Regional Office, and institution department staff. He/she must prepare and submit monthly reports and write memorandums to management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and written office procedures; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have reviewed written work of lower level co-workers for grammar and format. I have summarized data in a report; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings; and/or I have prepared minutes for staff meetings. I have summarized inventory data in a report; and/or I have written memoranda to management; and/or I have prepared a report explaining potential problems in department operations; and/or I have proofread documents and reports prior to submission. None of the above. 3 The Food Services Assistant must maintain systematic files, ledgers, and stock index records. He/she is also familiar with inventory accountability procedures by posting receivers. He/she is responsible for processing documents. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established files to enable co-workers/supervisors to retrieve information; and/or I have assisted with the annual inventory of supplies; and/or I have developed a checklist for individual files; and/or I have maintained time and attendance records. I have maintained a tracking system of office expenditures; and/or I have established a filing system to meet the individual needs of a department or division; and/or I have gathered and organized data for a supervisor; and/or I have volunteered for a committee to maintain financial data; and/or I have assisted with time and attendance retention. I have processed transactions, vouchers, and purchase orders; and/or I have planned the annual inventory and recorded information; and/or I have maintained obligation records. None of the above. 4 The Food Services Assistant must be able to research, retrieve, review, and process various information pertaining to food services operations. He/she must be able to retrieve information and prepare reports for presentation to department heads. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created a database to store records; and/or I have generated standardized accounting documents using Microsoft Office; and/or I have maintained financial data on a software program. I have selected a software program to use for accounting functions; and/or I have enhanced office operations by establishing a computerized accounting tracking system; and/or I have provided assistance to staff/supervisor on the use of a new software system for inventory/accounting data. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program. None of the above. 5 The Food Services Assistant must have knowledge of disbursements and fund accounting methods used in maintain balancing and closing sub-accounts in an accounting system. He/she must adhere to the standards of the U.S. Treasury Department, the General Accounting Office, Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Justice, and the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, during monthly reconciliation, corrected errors associated with misappropriated funds; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have completed purchase order with assistance. I have used an accounting manual to determine correct procedures for completing a purchase order; and/or I have applied necessary changes in procedures, as indicated by company policy; and/or I have adhered to policy when determining deadlines for vendor payments. I have input purchase orders into computerized financial system in order to reconcile within system; and/or I have used the Accounting Manual to determine correct procedures for completing a purchase order; and/or I have applied necessary changes in procedures, as indicated in an Operations Memoranda; and/or I have adhered to federal policy when determining deadlines for vendor payments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).