Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [72324]&nbsp; Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent e xperience providing guidance and leadership to students in the non-academic life, regimental/disciplinary environment at an academy, military university, or a learning institution ? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [54325] Do you have experience, education and/or training using the fundamental principles of human behavior, social trends and leadership, preferably within a collegiate and/or service academy environment or in the Armed Forces; including experience instructing, promoting and maintaining diversity within the organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [54326] Do you have experience serving in a management or leadership position directly associated with regimental-type training at a maritime and/or other military academy or in the Armed Forces? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [54178] Select those leadership duties you have experience performing on a regular, recurring basis. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have facilitated collaboration, coordination, and communication between staff members as a supervisor/leader. I have coached technical/professional staff members in problem solving methods. I have identified and balanced workload and tasks among employees in accordance with established skill levels as a supervisor/leader. I have trained and mentored employees in a technical work environment. I have led and motivated others to accomplish mission goals related to efficiency. I have devised and implemented organizational plans and procedures as a supervisor/leader. I have provided advice on work methods, practices, and procedures to technical/professional staff I have established performance standards and counseled technical /professional employees on performance plans. I have taken necessary action in cases of poor performance or misconduct in a supervisory/leadership position. None of the above. 6 [62117] Select the statement(s) that reflect your experience planning and organizing projects within an organization. Answer to this question is required I have planned and coordinated research and analysis assignments. I have conducted studies, reviews, evaluations, and assessments. I have coordinated long-range planning and development of organizational strategies. I have set priorities and effectively managed time/resource constrained program activities. None of the above. 7 [53244] Select the example(s) that apply(ies) to your program management experience, and your organizational accomplishments&nbsp;for the mission of your work group. Answer to this question is required I have little to no experience in program management. Advise, consult with, and/or negotiate with customers in the delivery of projects or programs. Development of annual work plan, objectives, priorities, workload of resources, schedule for accomplishment of work plan. Set the goals and objectives for accomplishments of your programs or projects. Planning of resources, delivery schedules and milestones. Implement new technology and innovative approaches Monitoring and tracking of program and organizational accomplishment. Solicit, monitor, measure and respond to customer satisfaction feedback from partners, stakeholders, client`s contractors, customers and suppliers, etc. Application of quality management and strategic improvement techniques. 8 [54312] Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience exercising professional judgment in dealing with sensitive or controversial issues and managing a team of internal resources to successful resolution. Answer to this question is required I have experience working with sensitive and/or controversial issues where I have exercised professional judgment to resolve issues related to managing a team of internal resources to successful resolution. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have independently worked with sensitive and/or controversial issues where I have exercised professional judgment to resolve issues managing a team of internal resources to successful resolution. I have assisted with work pertaining to sensitive and/or controversial issues where I have exercised professional judgment to resolve issues related to managing a team of internal resources. None of the above. 9 [7420] Select the statement(s) that describe the person-to-person communication or briefing skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above 10 [53482] Select the response that best describes your experience in managing and responding rapidly to an emergency situation. This experience must be well documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 2 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 6 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 7.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 7.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 7.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).