Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the choice that BEST describes your ability to advise senior officials on system issues: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience managing or directing a large complex automated system or program: Answer to this question is required I have participated with others in managing the operations of a small automated system or program for an office. I have been responsible for managing the operations of an automated system or program for an office or agency. I have assisted in managing the operations of a large and complex automated system or program for an agency, bureau or component. I have independently managed or directed the operations of a large and complex automated system or program for an agency, bureau or component. I have little or no work experience with managing or directing the operations of an automated system or program. 5 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers, states, and outside organizations? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 6 Which of the following forms of communication have you used to communicate technical information? Answer to this question is required Formal presentations Informal presentations Information memoranda Policy or other briefing documents Journals News media Instructional aids None of the above 7 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating, explaining, or defending complex ideas or information related to data collection: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this competency. I have education or training in performing this competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this competency on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 8 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience developing briefings for senior management officials including analyses, conclusions, and recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 10 Which of the following types of situations illustrate your experience negotiating effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required Monetary impact, such as outsourcing Policy changes Adding, dropping, or modifying programs Congressional mandates Contracts Employee relations Organizational realignment None of the above 11 Experience planning, organizing, coordinating and executing complex projects/activities where numerous organizations are involved and multiple tasks are required to achieve the desired IT solution. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Apply, implement and monitor information systems to meet organizational requirements. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 14 From the list below, select all of the activities that you have performed in support of formal technical presentations: Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for selecting and scheduling the venue for the presentation. I have been responsible for identifying and sending invitations to the target audience. I have been responsible for developing the agenda for the presentation. I have been responsible for creating technical material for use by other presenters. I have been responsible for creating the presentation package (powerpoint slides, etc.). I have been responsible for presenting some portion of the material. I have been responsible for all (or most) of the presentation. I have been responsible for leading the Q&A session as the technical expert. None of the above. 15 Which of the following BEST describes your background in developing and implementing program management standards? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing and implementing program management standards. I have education or training in developing and implementing program management standards, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely developed and implemented program management standards. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed and implemented program management standards, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing and implementing program management standards. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 17 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 18 Which of the following choices best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects I regularly lead teams in work-related projects 19 In which of the following do you have education, training, or experience? Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Arbitration Counseling Coaching None of the above 20 Which of the following types of teams have you planned, organized, and managed? Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary/ cross functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.