Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 Contract Specialists must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, administering, and closing-out contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements, or other instructional /regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simple acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method and type of contract. I have used laws to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish agreement between agencies; and/or I have provided information to my supervisor on service & supply contracts. I have used the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) to prepare solicitations; and/or I have applied agency regulations in administering contracts; and/or I have applied procurement regulations in purchasing diversified types of supplies, equipment, and services; and/or I have posted synopsis and solicitations electronically via the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBizOpps). None of the above. 4.2 Contract Specialists must be able to communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. They must be able to prepare reports, contracts and other correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared cost analysis and market research to determine the fair and reasonable price; and/or I have prepared amendments to solicitations; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations. I have assisted in the completion of solicitation/offer award forms, release of claim from contract closeout forms or standard modification forms; and/or I have responded to offers from FedBizzOpps; and/or I have provided technical information to field personnel by e-mail; and/or I have drafted an instructional memorandum; and/or I have prepared inter-office memos. I have prepared interagency agreements; and/or I have prepared reports for Federal Procurement Data System; and/or I have prepared contract price/cost analysis; and/or I have documented contract termination; and/or I have prepared unauthorized commitment memos and justifications for other than full & open competitive documents. I have responded to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests involving procurement; and/or I have prepared negotiation memorandums; and/or I have written cure notices, show cause, and termination letters. None of the above. 4.3 Contract Specialists must be able to effectively express a wide array of information and ideas to people within and outside the organization. They must be able to use tact and diplomacy with various parties in the negotiation process. They typically meet and deal with contractors, technical staff, program managers, cost center managers, senior corporate officials, and state and local officials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have negotiated contracts; and/or I have informed contractors of status of solicitations; and/or I have negotiated on price and terms of contracts; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions of a contract; and/or I have interviewed contractors and vendors. I have informed my supervisor of issues affecting contracts; and/or I have gathered information on request for proposal numbers; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to subordinates; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have conducted a pre-negotiation conference with program officials to clarify a solicitation requirement. None of the above. 4.4 Contract Specialists must have knowledge of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types and the proper clauses, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and providing supervision and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have analyzed settlement proposals; and/or I have performed price analysis to get reasonable prices/rates; and/or I have used pre-award surveys to determine contractor's eligibility for awards; and/or I have determined type of contract and contract clauses. I have prepared purchase orders and requests for purchase; and/or I have prepared amendments; and/or I have considered mandatory sources (i.e. Unicor, Javitts-Wagner O'Day, General Services Administration Federal Supplies, etc.) for procurement actions. I have ensured contractors are in compliance with contract requirements; and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents. None of the above. 4.5 Contract Specialists must be able to constantly make independent decisions such as awarding and determining contracts, determining types of contracts, clauses and provisions, and resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contract actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved delivery schedule problems; and/or I have prepared recommendations for awards, documenting reasons for decisions; and/or I have responded to general inquiries and concerns from vendors; and/or I have determined appropriate method of procurement from requisitions; and/or I have determined the procurement method from the Request for Purchase. I have selected contractors; and/or I have reviewed invoices and vouchers to ensure accuracy; and/or I have prepared and organized solicitation documents; and/or I have reviewed contract files to determine that requirements were satisfied. I have selected type of contracts; and/or I have settled disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of contractor in complying with contract requirements; and/or I have conducted market research and price analysis in determining fair and reasonable price. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 4.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4.1 Contract Specialists must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, administering, and closing-out contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used county laws to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish agreements between local agencies; and/or I have provided information to supervisors on service & supply contracts. I have researched issues for management and field personnel regarding procurement options; and/or I have applied the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Justice Acquisition Regulations, and Bureau of Prisons' acquisition policy; and/or I have researched and interpreted past court rulings on procurement decisions to justify actions taken on disputed issues in agency contracts; and/or I have interpreted and applied agency regulations to resolve conflict over price, cost, and/or building procedures. I have used the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) to prepare solicitations; and/or I have applied agency regulations in administering contracts; and/or I have applied procurement regulations in purchasing diversified types of supplies, equipment, and services; and/or I have posted synopsis and solicitations electronically via the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBizOpps). None of the above. 4.2 Contract Specialists must be able to communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. He/she must be able to prepare reports, contracts and other correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed unauthorized commitment memos; and/or I have prepared inter-office memos; and/or I have completed solicitation/offer award forms, release of claim form, contract closeout forms or standard modification forms; and/or I have responded to offers from FedBizzOpps. I have responded to Congressionals; and/or I have prepared determinations and findings that documented actions taken in contracts; and/or I have made recommendations for statement of work to technical staff; and/or I have responded in writing to public inquiries on sensitive issues; and/or I have prepared decision letters to address discrepancies in contracts. I have prepared cost analysis and market research to determine the fair and reasonable price; and/or I have prepared amendments to solicitations; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations. I have recommended organizational procedures; and/or I have recommended and implemented procurement policy affecting the agency; and/or I have prepared pre/post award reviews of solicitations/contracts; and/or I have developed guidance material for institutional personnel; and/or I have prepared justifications for other than full and open competition; and/or I have prepared modifications to contracts. I have responded to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests involving procurement; and/or I have prepared negotiation memorandums; and/or I have written cure notices, show cause, and termination letters. None of the above. 4.3 Contract Specialists must be able to effectively express a wide array of information and ideas to people inside and outside the organization. They must be able to use tact and diplomacy with various parties in the negotiation process. They typically meet and deal with contractors, technical staff, program managers, cost center managers, senior corporate officials, and state and local officials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have informed contractors of status of solicitations; and/or I have assisted in negotiations for price and terms of contracts; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to subordinates; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have kept my supervisor abreast on issues effecting contracts; and/or I have conducted a pre-negotiation conference with program officials to clarify a solicitation requirement. I have conducted a field training class on various phases of contracts; and/or I have attended contractor's conferences to make presentations and conduct training; and/or I have conducted negotiations on critical contract issues; and/or I have led negotiation teams to settle a variety of problems; and/or I have informed business, industry or government officials to discuss termination of contractor for default. None of the above. 4.4 Contract Specialists must have knowledge of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types and the proper clauses, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and providing supervision and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have analyzed settlement proposals; and/or I have performed price analysis to get reasonable prices/rates; and/or I have used pre-award surveys to determine contractor's eligibility for awards; and/or I have determined type of contract and contract clauses. I have ensured contractors are in compliance with contract requirements; and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents. I have determined deficiencies in pre/post award reviews; and/or I have provided instructional guidance on procurement matters; and/or I have performed forecasting techniques to determine the need for a requirement; and/or I have recommended changes to procurement policies/procedures that are implemented by the organization; and/or I have used cost and price analysis to finalize modifications. None of the above. 4.5 Contract Specialists must be able to constantly make independent decisions such as awarding and determining contracts, determining types of contracts, clauses and provisions, and resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contract actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected contractors; and/or I have reviewed invoices and vouchers to ensure accuracy; and/or I have prepared and organized solicitation documents; and/or I have reviewed contractor's files to determine that requirements were satisfied. I have selected types of contracts; and/or I have settled disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of contractor in complying with contract requirements; and/or I have conducted market research and price analysis in determining fair and reasonable price. I have conducted both in-depth cost and price analysis; and/or I have evaluated cost overruns and made adjustments; and/or I have audited contracts and determined if the agency is following procurement regulations and policies; and/or I have recognized deficiencies during a program review; and/or I have conducted an evaluation of a contractor's past performance. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).