Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have 3 years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Medical Officer must possess the ability to effectively manage patient care regimens, including prescribing the most effective and safe medication combinations to treat illnesses and diseases.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have studied medical textbooks in order to learn the pharmacologic class of all prescribed medications; and/or I have consulted with senior level physicians on prescribing new and novel medications; and/or I have researched any and all side effects, interactions and toxicity for newly prescribed medications. I have discussed new medications during education programs; and/or I have replaced ineffective medications with evidence-based alternatives (i.e., practicing state of the art medicine); and/or I have consulted with a physician/pharmacist when a patient’s medications did not appear to be controlling the disease or when unexpected symptoms arose after a change in medications. I have regularly consulted journals or other resources in order to stay abreast of new medications or changes in medications, prior to prescribing medication(s); and/or I have researched any interactions that could be caused by prescribing specific medications with patient’s current medications; and/or I have attended continuing medical education programs to increase familiarization with prescribing developments. None of the above. 5 The Medical Officer is responsible for treating the various medical needs of primarily adult inmates within the confines of a correctional institution. He/she must possess the comprehensive ability to assess the condition of patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements or initiate referrals to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have admitted patients to the hospital but frequently turned over their care to another physician/specialist; and/or I have consulted with physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for private sector employer; and/or I have performed medical services in an out-patient/urgent care environment. I have performed history and physicals and ordered appropriate diagnostic tests; and/or I have interpreted results in order to make a diagnosis and developed treatment plans for patients; and/or I have consulted with senior level physicians on the diagnostic and treatment plans for general medical patients, performed well women exams or adult male physicals in an outpatient general medical clinic setting. I have performed limited medical services in a general medicine outpatient clinic; and/or I have conducted routine school physical examinations; and/or I have managed routine chronic medical conditions. None of the above. 6 The Medical Officer employed by the Federal Bureau of Prisons must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations. This knowledge is necessary to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care and constraints of a correctional institution health care environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have consulted with senior physicians on the interpretation of medical standards; and/or I have consulted with other physicians on the determination of procedures of medical standards; and/or I have researched and made recommendations to senior physicians on diagnosis of care/treatment for patients. I have referenced medical textbooks for routine medical standards determinations; and/or I have documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements appropriately; and/or I have frequently consulted with senior physicians before applying medical practice standards to complicated patient caseloads. I have managed and treated a patient care panel with the supervision of a senior level physician; and/or I have admitted patients to the general medical service in a teaching hospital under the supervision of an attending physician; and/or I have assisted the teaching hospital or clinic in acquiring accreditation by established organizations (i.e., the Joint Commission of Accredited Health Care Organizations, and The National Commission on Correctional Healthcare). None of the above. 7 The Medical Officer must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates, and outside stakeholders to coordinate the medical needs and care for a varying inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, Executive Staff of the institution, and with regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses or other licensed health care professionals. I have explained treatment plans to a patient’s advocate; and/or I have provided instruction on care to patient’s family members; and/or I have facilitated a seminar for patients on preventive care. I have completed informed consents prior to procedures and diagnostic imaging; and/or I have counseled patients on disease prevention and vaccinations specific to their age group and risk factors; and/or I have delivered difficult diagnostic outcomes to patients and their families; and/or I have educated patients on medication usage and chronic disease states in order to improve patient understanding and outcomes. None of the above. 8 The Medical Officer must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population. He/she must be able to document information accurately, completely and timely in the health record. Other written communications may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements and responding to various requests for information. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized didactic and medical decision support tools in the patients electronic health record (EHR) in order to maximize patient outcomes; and/or I have performed medication reconciliations and documented pertinent physical exam findings, review of systems and updated all diagnosis and other health information in the patients chart at each patient visit to provide the most comprehensive medical information to every licensed provider in the patients care team; and/or I have presented admission evaluations, exam and diagnostic treatment plans in the electronic health record (EHR) to specialists and senior level physicians when needed on complex or emergent patients. I have dictated history, physicals and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies (i.e., Worker’s Compensation cases, Social Security Disability applications); and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. I have completed forms for school physicals; and/or I have documented outpatient visits; and/or I have prepared correspondence for other physicians regarding co-managed patients. None of the above. Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have 4 years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Medical Officer must possess the ability to effectively manage patient care regimens, including prescribing the most effective and safe medication combinations to treat illnesses and diseases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have regularly consulted journals or other resources in order to stay abreast of new medications or changes in medications, prior to prescribing medication(s); and/or I have researched any interactions that could be caused by prescribing specific medications with patient’s current medications; and/or I have attended continuing medical education programs to increase familiarization with prescribing developments. I have consulted resources (i.e., UpToDate, or other written resources) prior to prescribing medications to ensure no adverse drug interactions would occur; and/or I have considered input/feedback from other medical professionals prior to prescribing medications to patients; and/or I have objectively reviewed patient requests for new medications and determined if the patient would derive any significant benefit, and where no benefit was determined by prescribing the new medication, advised patient of the reasons (i.e., interaction with other medications). I have discussed new medications during education programs; and/or I have replaced ineffective medications with evidence based alternatives (i.e., practicing state of the art medicine); and/or I have consulted with a physician/pharmacist when a patient’s medications did not appear to be controlling the disease or when unexpected symptoms arose after a change in medications. None of the above. 5 The Medical Officer is responsible for treating the various medical needs of primarily adult inmates within the confines of a correctional institution. He/she must possess the comprehensive ability to assess the condition of patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements or initiate referrals to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed limited medical services in a general medicine outpatient clinic; and/or I have conducted routine school physical examinations; and/or I have managed routine chronic medical conditions. I have admitted patients to the hospital but frequently turned over their care to another physician/specialist; and/or I have consulted with physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for private sector employer; and/or I have performed medical services in an out-patient/urgent care environment. I have, based on comprehensive patient histories and examination results, appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests, and formulated a differential diagnosis to effectively treat patients’ chief medical complaint; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted most test results independently; and/or I have identified common acute conditions reflected in blood tests, electrocardiograms (ECG), and x-rays, while relying on expert interpretation to confirm preliminary impressions; and/or I have performed routine office surgery and procedures (i.e., skin biopsies and cryosurgery). None of the above. 6 The Medical Officer employed by the Federal Bureau of Prisons must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations. This knowledge is necessary to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care and constraints of a correctional institution health care environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have referenced medical textbooks for routine medical standards determinations; and/or I have documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements appropriately; and/or I have frequently consulted with senior physicians before applying medical practice standards to complicated patient caseloads. I have consulted with senior physicians on the interpretation of medical standards; and/or I have consulted with other physicians on the determination of procedures of medical standards; and/or I have researched and made recommendations to senior physicians on diagnosis of care/treatment for patients. I have performed assessments and physical examinations of patients on assigned caseloads; and/or I have utilized treatment guidelines developed by insurance carriers or managed care organizations as the primary source of the standard of care/accepted practice; and/or I have derived standard of care/accepted practice from reading primary care journals (i.e., American Family Physician, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), New England Journal of Medicine, or Annals of Internal Medicine); and/or I have applied ongoing practice standards to patients receiving care/treatment. None of the above. 7 The Medical Officer must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates, and outside stakeholders to coordinate the medical needs and care for a varying inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, Executive Staff of the institution, and with regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed treatment options and calmed an upset patient facing a long/tedious recuperation period; and/or I have resolved medical care issues/needs of a clinic/hospital; and/or I have facilitated a training session for health care staff of a hospital/private facility/clinic on health care advances, concerns; and/or I have actively participated in Community Relations Board meetings by representing/presenting specific medical issues. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses or other licensed health care professionals. I have explained treatment plans to a patient’s advocate; and/or I have provided instruction on care to patient’s family members; and/or I have facilitated a seminar for patients on preventive care. None of the above. 8 The Medical Officer must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population. He/she must be able to document information accurately, completely and timely in the health record. Other written communications may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements and responding to various requests for information. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared budget request packet for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared response to inquiry received regarding medical decisions; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. I have completed forms for school physicals; and/or I have documented outpatient visits; and/or I have prepared correspondence for other physicians regarding co-managed patients. I have dictated history, physicals and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies (i.e., Worker’s Compensation cases, Social Security Disability applications); and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. None of the above. Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have five years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Medical Officer must possess the ability to effectively manage patient care regimens, including prescribing the most effective and safe medication combinations to treat illnesses and diseases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed medication profiles of patients on a regular basis, eliminated unnecessary medications and identified medications with potential interactions; and/or I have maximized medication compliance by simplifying regimens where possible, taking advantage of medications which can address more than one condition (i.e., an alpha blocker for a patient with both hypertension and prostate enlargement, an Angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for a diabetic with high blood pressure, a beta-blocker for a patient with both hypertension and migraine. I have consulted resources (i.e., UpToDate, or other written resources) prior to prescribing medications to ensure no adverse drug interactions would occur; and/or I have considered input/feedback from other medical professionals prior to prescribing medications to patients; and/or I have objectively reviewed patient requests for new medications and determined if the patient would derive any significant benefit, and where no benefit was determined by prescribing the new medication, advised patient of the reasons (i.e., interaction with other medications). I have discussed new medications during education programs; and/or I have replaced ineffective medications with evidence based alternatives (i.e., practicing state of the art medicine); and/or I have consulted with a physician/pharmacist when a patient’s medications did not appear to be controlling the disease or when unexpected symptoms arose after a change in medications. I have worked as a consultant to other prescribers in regards to appropriate, safe medication regimens; and/or I have intervened on a patient’s behalf when a concern about the safety or effectiveness of a medication regimen was raised by a pharmacist or another provider and provided feedback to the patient and the prescriber as to the reasons for the intervention; and/or I interpreted and applied current evidence-based guidelines to select the safest and most effective treatment plan in regards to medications. None of the above. 5 The Medical Officer is responsible for treating the various medical needs of primarily adult inmates within the confines of a correctional institution. He/she must possess the comprehensive ability to assess the condition of patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements or initiate referrals to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have admitted patients to the hospital but frequently turned over their care to another physician/specialist; and/or I have consulted with physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for private sector employer; and/or I have performed medical services in an out-patient/urgent care environment. I have performed comprehensive history and physical examinations appropriate to the patient’s chief complaint; and/or I have developed logical list of probable diagnoses based on patient history and examination and ordered appropriate tests in a logical order to include or exclude the most likely illness; and/or I have independently performed diagnostic and therapeutic procedures within the scope of his/her training and experience (i.e., joint injections and aspirations, skin and subcutaneous biopsies of cancerous or precancerous lesions); and/or I have independently interpreted electrocardiograms (ECG), pulmonary function tests and appropriately identified acute findings on chest, abdominal, spine and extremity x-rays to determine appropriate initial management based on these findings. I have, based on comprehensive patient histories and examination results, appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests, and formulated a differential diagnosis to effectively treat patients’ chief medical complaint; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted most test results independently; and/or I have identified common acute conditions reflected in blood tests, electrocardiograms (ECG), and x-rays, while relying on expert interpretation to confirm preliminary impressions; and/or I have performed routine office surgery and procedures (i.e., skin biopsies and cryosurgery). None of the above. 6 The Medical Officer employed by the Federal Bureau of Prisons must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations. This knowledge is necessary to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care and constraints of a correctional institution health care environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have referenced medical textbooks for routine medical standards determinations; and/or I have documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements appropriately; and/or I have frequently consulted with senior physicians before applying medical practice standards to complicated patient caseloads. I have performed assessments and physical examinations of patients on assigned caseloads; and/or I have utilized treatment guidelines developed by insurance carriers or managed care organizations as the primary source of the standard of care/accepted practice; and/or I have derived standard of care/accepted practice from reading primary care journals (i.e., American Family Physician, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), New England Journal of Medicine, or Annals of Internal Medicine); and/or I have applied ongoing practice standards to patients receiving care/treatment. I have researched and applied current evidence-based treatment guidelines applicable to their practice (i.e., Joint National Committee Guidelines for the Treatment and Prevention of high blood pressure , American Diabetes Association (ADA) Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes, American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (AHA) for cholesterol and heart disease, Centers for Disease Control (CDC) for infectious diseases, United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) for screening recommendations and preventive interventions for cancer and other chronic and infectious diseases); and/or I have provided instruction (in person/virtually) on medical treatment protocols across broad spectrum of disease processes; and/or I have utilized knowledge of federal laws and insurance carrier rules and regulations to assure patients receive appropriate medically necessary health care, advocating for patient’s best interest when required. None of the above. 7 The Medical Officer must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates, and outside stakeholders to coordinate the medical needs and care for a varying inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, Executive Staff of the institution, and with regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chaired a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have negotiated with managers, physicians and insurance carriers, the resolution of complex medical care issues/needs; and/or I have spoke as a keynote speaker at a medical convention or conference; and/or I have resolved disagreements between medical professionals on patient care/treatment; and/or I have presented lecture/presentation on the benefit of purchasing new medical apparatus to hospital management/administrators; and/or I have represented the facility as a member of a Community Relations Board on medical relations. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses or other licensed health care professionals. I have discussed treatment options and calmed an upset patient facing a long/tedious recuperation period; and/or I have resolved medical care issues/needs of a clinic/hospital; and/or I have facilitated a training session for health care staff of a hospital/private facility/clinic on health care advances, concerns; and/or I have actively participated in Community Relations Board meetings by representing/presenting specific medical issues. None of the above. 8 The Medical Officer must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population. He/she must be able to document information accurately, completely and timely in the health record. Other written communications may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements and responding to various requests for information.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared budget request packet for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared response to inquiry received regarding medical decisions; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. I have dictated history, physicals and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies (i.e., Worker’s Compensation cases, Social Security Disability applications); and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a medical facility; and/or I have prepared technical/complex correspondence regarding patient medical needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional manpower, equipment, medical certification/training, at a medical facility; and/or I have prepared and had published articles in medical journals or textbooks; and/or I have documented pertinent health care encounters in Subjective, Objective, Assessment, Plan, Education (SOAPE) or similar format; and/or I have made appropriate diagnoses and assessment of disease control with appropriate treatment plans and patient education. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Did you hear about the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and career opportunities before you searched on USAJOBS? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Human Resources Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Social Media (Linkedln, Twitter, etc.) Other 8 Which of the following factors listed below influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Please select 1-5 answers. Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP 9 Which of the following factors listed below was the single most important factor that influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP Not addressed above 9.1 Please briefly describe below the important factor, which was not addressed, that influenced your decision to apply: Maximum length of 75 characters. Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).