Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Medical Supply Technicians must be able to collect, organize, record and communicate information relevant to purchasing, ordering and dispensing of medical supplies and equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established the format for reports and other documents used by an organization; and/or I have prepared a summary of office procedures; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes; and/or I have maintained records on the use, issuance and stock levels of supplies. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agenda for meeting using established formats and procedures; and/or I have prepared purchase request for supplies; and/or I have prepared quarterly budget reports. I have drafted internal memos for co-workers; and/or I have prepared standardized report on the status of current supplies; and/or I have completed travel vouchers. None of the above. 3 Medical Supply Technician procures supplies from various sources, receive new supplies, check supplies delivered for shortages and breakage, record errors or damages detected, place items in proper storage locations in supply rooms and participate in periodic physical inventory of medical supply items. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised medical personnel on availability of supplies; and/or I have rotated medical supplies to ensure that items were not unnecessarily wasted due to outdating; and/or I have conducted periodic inventory of general office supplies; and/or I have filled requests for medical supplies based on daily schedule of needs. I have advised medical personnel on the availability of supplies and possible substitutions; and/or I have designated shelf life for commercially prepared items to assure items are safe to use; and/or I have provided analysis of current inventory levels and purchasing requirements. I have conducted periodic inventory of medical supplies and equipment; and/or I have filled special and emergency requests for supplies; and/or I have researched and completed purchase requests for medical supplies; and/or I have stocked operating room supply cart with packs and other items requested. None of the above. 4 Medical Supply Technician operates and maintains sophisticated equipment and instruments, evaluate new tests and instruments, and modify and adapt standard methods. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed disassembly of equipment to remove gross contamination from component parts; and/or I have advised medical personnel of proper use of equipment; and/or I have dismantled, cleaned and reassembled equipment after use. I have advised medical personnel on proper use of equipment and correction of problems that arise; and/or I have prepared justification for need for new or replacement medical equipment; and/or I have evaluates new equipment received; and/or I have reassembled complex medical equipment such as cell centrifuges. I have assisted in the setup of medical equipment such as orthopedic traction equipment, water mattresses and other medical equipment; and/or I have performed minor routine maintenance on medical equipment; and/or I have tested medical equipment for proper operation. None of the above. 5 Medical Supply Technician possess knowledge of sterilization techniques required to sterilize items to preclude damage and/or destruction of supplies and equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used flash sterilization in an emergency; and/or I have performed tests to determine effectiveness of sterilization; and/or I have implemented new or improved sterilization practices. I have examined items to ensure that gross contamination has been removed; and/or I have determine correct method for pre-sterilization; and/or I have assembled sets and trays; and/or I have aerated gas-sterilized items for correct period of time; and/or I have selected correct sterilizer medium and cycles, and operated sterilizer; and/or I have removed items from pre-sterilizers and determined type of tray or set to assemble. I have selected appropriate method of sterilization; and/or I have operated ultrasonic cleaner or washer-sterilizer; and/or I have inspected packages for indications of proper sterilization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).