Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Providing advice regarding electrical and electronic aspects of design, operation, and mechanical systems and equipment; (2) Providing project management control (ex., scheduling, resources, trades) within the electrical discipline; (3) Serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on assigned construction and consultant contracts; and (4) Serving as a professional electrical engineer to facilitate power quality studies, capacity studies, remediation, UPS and emergency power strategy, short circuit and load coordination studies and control system strategies. 2 Do you have experience providing electrical and electronic engineering analysis and advance planning for utilization of new technologies, systems and capabilities for proposed projects. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education researching and investigating electrical and electronic problems and incidents to determine actions required and the cause of the incident. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 4 Choose the response that best describes your experience and/or education with an electrical resiliency program ((keeping an electricity grid secure from potentially disruptive events (such as the loss of power lines) and the ability to adapt to changing conditions and withstand and recover from potential threats.)) Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 5 Select the topics on which you have independently researched or performed analyses as part of the pre-design stage. Answer to this question is required Site analysis / selection Existing building condition assessment (e.g., functional, structural, code issues) Construction cost estimating Facility and infrastructure analysis Programming objectives (i.e., client needs, project goals) Electrical Service or Facility systems None of the above 6 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Performed short circuit, arc flash, and coordination studies Developed electrical design calculations. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop designs. Modified designs to comply with historically significant monumental building limitations. Provided electrical service design review comments. Provided electrical facility design review comments. Performed site inspections to confirm compliance with construction documents. Performed site inspections to confirm that existing building conditions match existing record drawings. None of the above 7 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations Managed projects with time sensitive and critical schedules None of the above 8 Do you hold a Professional Engineering License? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Select the task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis regarding contracts. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a contract. Developed Scope of Work or technical requirements documents. Developed safety plans Monitored contractor activities through personal contact. Developed contracts requests with supporting justifications. Prepared requests for contracts resources for an organization. Engaged in the strategic planning process. Procured complex equipment, services, or construction using cost-price analysis techniques. Coordinated the work of contractors on construction and renovations projects. Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting contracts and justifications. None of the above 11 Select the contracting functions you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Evaluating requests for proposals (RFPs) developed by others Estimating needed resources Shifting resources to meet needs Participating in the acquisition planning process Assessing competitive bidding procedures Conducting technical and cost evaluations of proposals Developing independent cost estimates Determining which contract type was most applicable to the situation None of the above 12 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 13 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have marketed safety programs using networking and constituency group processes effectively. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 15 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Agency design standards Citation response plans Acquisition strategies Procurement documents (e.g., plans, board selection reports) Policies Specifications None of the above Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Providing advice regarding electrical and electronic aspects of design, operation, and mechanical systems and equipment; (2) Providing project management control (ex., scheduling, resources, trades) within the electrical discipline; (3) Serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on assigned construction and consultant contracts; and (4) Serving as a professional electrical engineer to facilitate power quality studies, capacity studies, remediation, UPS and emergency power strategy, short circuit and load coordination studies and control system strategies. 2 Do you have experience providing electrical and electronic engineering analysis and advance planning for utilization of new technologies, systems and capabilities for proposed projects. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education researching and investigating electrical and electronic problems and incidents to determine actions required and the cause of the incident. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 4 Choose the response that best describes your experience and/or education with an electrical resiliency program ((keeping an electricity grid secure from potentially disruptive events (such as the loss of power lines) and the ability to adapt to changing conditions and withstand and recover from potential threats.)) Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 5 Select the topics on which you have independently researched or performed analyses as part of the pre-design stage. Answer to this question is required Site analysis / selection Existing building condition assessment (e.g., functional, structural, code issues) Construction cost estimating Facility and infrastructure analysis Programming objectives (i.e., client needs, project goals) Electrical Service or Facility systems None of the above 6 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Performed short circuit, arc flash, and coordination studies Developed electrical design calculations. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop designs. Modified designs to comply with historically significant monumental building limitations. Provided electrical service design review comments. Provided electrical facility design review comments. Performed site inspections to confirm compliance with construction documents. Performed site inspections to confirm that existing building conditions match existing record drawings. None of the above 7 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations Managed projects with time sensitive and critical schedules None of the above 8 Do you hold a Professional Engineering License? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Select the task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis regarding contracts. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a contract. Developed Scope of Work or technical requirements documents. Developed safety plans Monitored contractor activities through personal contact. Developed contracts requests with supporting justifications. Prepared requests for contracts resources for an organization. Engaged in the strategic planning process. Procured complex equipment, services, or construction using cost-price analysis techniques. Coordinated the work of contractors on construction and renovations projects. Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting contracts and justifications. None of the above 11 Select the contracting functions you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Evaluating requests for proposals (RFPs) developed by others Estimating needed resources Shifting resources to meet needs Participating in the acquisition planning process Assessing competitive bidding procedures Conducting technical and cost evaluations of proposals Developing independent cost estimates Determining which contract type was most applicable to the situation None of the above 12 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 13 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have marketed safety programs using networking and constituency group processes effectively. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 15 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Agency design standards Citation response plans Acquisition strategies Procurement documents (e.g., plans, board selection reports) Policies Specifications None of the above Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Providing expert advice regarding electrical and electronic aspects of design, operation, and mechanical systems and equipment; (2) Providing project management control (ex., scheduling, resources, trades) within the electrical discipline; (3) Serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent on assigned construction and consultant contracts; and (4) Serving as a professional electrical engineer to facilitate power quality studies, capacity studies, remediation, UPS and emergency power strategy, short circuit and load coordination studies and control system strategies. 2 Do you have experience providing electrical and electronic engineering analysis and advance planning for utilization of new technologies, systems and capabilities for proposed projects. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education researching and investigating electrical and electronic problems and incidents to determine actions required and the cause of the incident. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 4 Choose the response that best describes your experience and/or education with an electrical resiliency program ((keeping an electricity grid secure from potentially disruptive events (such as the loss of power lines) and the ability to adapt to changing conditions and withstand and recover from potential threats.)) Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 5 Select the topics on which you have independently researched or performed analyses as part of the pre-design stage. Answer to this question is required Site analysis / selection Existing building condition assessment (e.g., functional, structural, code issues) Construction cost estimating Facility and infrastructure analysis Programming objectives (i.e., client needs, project goals) Electrical Service or Facility systems None of the above 6 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Performed short circuit, arc flash, and coordination studies Developed electrical design calculations. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop designs. Modified designs to comply with historically significant monumental building limitations. Provided electrical service design review comments. Provided electrical facility design review comments. Performed site inspections to confirm compliance with construction documents. Performed site inspections to confirm that existing building conditions match existing record drawings. None of the above 7 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations Managed projects with time sensitive and critical schedules None of the above 8 Do you hold a Professional Engineering License? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Select the task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis regarding contracts. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a contract. Developed Scope of Work or technical requirements documents. Developed safety plans Monitored contractor activities through personal contact. Developed contracts requests with supporting justifications. Prepared requests for contracts resources for an organization. Engaged in the strategic planning process. Procured complex equipment, services, or construction using cost-price analysis techniques. Coordinated the work of contractors on construction and renovations projects. Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting contracts and justifications. None of the above 11 Select the contracting functions you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Evaluating requests for proposals (RFPs) developed by others Estimating needed resources Shifting resources to meet needs Participating in the acquisition planning process Assessing competitive bidding procedures Conducting technical and cost evaluations of proposals Developing independent cost estimates Determining which contract type was most applicable to the situation None of the above 12 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 13 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have taught a class, provided one-on-one instruction, or similar experience. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have marketed safety programs using networking and constituency group processes effectively. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 15 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Agency design standards Citation response plans Acquisition strategies Procurement documents (e.g., plans, board selection reports) Policies Specifications None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 2.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.