Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Recruitment Specialists interact with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of providing medical recruitment or job vacancy information to applicants and developing new resources for recruitment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to and provided guidance to staff regarding policy questions; and/or I have advised staff of new developments relating to operations of Employee Services; and/or I have performed duties as an alternate special emphasis program manager. I have counseled new employees on career development; and/or I have served as liaison for the Workforce Diversity program; and/or I have performed duties as a special emphasis program manager; and/or I have presented departmental overviews at new employee orientation. I have provided staff training on a variety of human resource issues; and/or I have advised management in personnel areas such as insurance, benefits, leave, and staffing procedures; and/or I have made oral presentation at a major medical recruitment event, addressing audiences of both health care professionals and well qualified individuals regarding pay incentives, bonuses and above the minimum rate, etc. None of the above. 5 Recruitment Specialists communicate in writing with a wide variety of people. They are responsible for preparing justifications for above the minimum rate requests, student loan repayment or recruitment/retention incentives. They may be tasked with surveying community resources and presenting their findings. They may be involved in preparing presentations or materials for advertisements or recruitment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written position descriptions; and/or I have prepared justifications for above the minimum and/or recruitment bonus requests; and/or I have prepared memoranda or letters for Executive Staff signature. I have prepared a disciplinary letter using facts and reports supplied by others; and/or I have prepared a statement of work outlining training services to be provided by vendors; and/or I have prepared annual reports for executive staff/upper level management showing the completion of required training (annual training, ethics, computer security, etc.). I have prepared responses to standard or recurring personnel/training issues; and/or I have composed memorandum for supervisor's signature; and/or I have prepared meeting summary or meeting minutes; and/or I have prepared a draft newsletter article for supervisory review; and/or I have prepared training agenda to relay course information to instructors and participants. I have drafted a Monday Morning Highlights article which was published without additional review; and/or I have written recruitment literature; and/or I have prepared Congressional correspondence. I have prepared e-mail messages to provide personnel/training information and to solicit information from others; and/or I have written a position evaluation; and/or I have prepared memorandums outlining complaint procedures; and/or I have prepared correspondence requesting relevant case documents; and/or I have prepared responses to inmate complaints. None of the above. 6 Recruitment Specialists must be able to interpret and apply a wide variety of OPM and agency regulations, pay and benefits information and other instructional/regulatory materials. Recruiters should be knowledgeable of both civil service and Public Health Service (PHS) application guidelines and procedures in order to communicate hiring information to candidates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted Associate Warden (Medical) and/or other executive staff and managers in developing long-range staffing plans, specifically for medical positions; and/or I have gathered, reviewed and analyzed required information for Special Salary Rate requests preparing and submitting through RESA and the Central Office for concurrence before submitting to Office of Personnel Management (OPM). I have assisted applicants with on-line application procedures; and/or I have prepared and submitted requests for recruitment and/or retention bonus; and/or I have provided information to management on performance program, or training requirements. I have provided basic information to management on special hiring programs, or training requirements; and/or I have ensured that all pre-employment forms were properly completed and filed prior to entering on duty date; and/or I have answered questions regarding OPM and/or agency personnel/training regulations; and/or I have contacted applicant references for background information; and/or I have determined applicant qualifications for a position. I have prepared Physician Comparability Allowance Payment (PCAP) for processing; and/or I have provided technical assistance to personnel assistant; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding OPM and/or agency personnel and/or training regulations. I have developed unique recruitment sources and methods; and/or I have worked with financial managers and others regarding recruitment budget; and/or I have interpreted and applied a variety of federal personnel/training policy, regulations, program statements, or other instructional/regulatory materials. None of the above. 7 Recruitment Specialists review and analyze management practices, policies, organizational structure and employment trends, in order to advise local Exec Staff of changes to, or deletion of, previous recruitment methodologies, attendance at recruitment events, advertisements in journals/newspapers, etc., or use of pay incentives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized medical department's recruitment program and assisted in the preparation of various recruitment activities; and/or I have calculated and developed analyses assuring correct information with regard to vacancies, salaries, and premium pay; and/or I have participated on affirmative action or employee services program reviews. With direction, I have located relevant reference and supporting documentation; and/or I have gathered basic information and summarized into a report; and/or I have drafted routine reports, based on information from standard NFC-related data. I have analyzed case issues and provided written guidance; and/or I have developed and/or evaluated evidence for use in investigative cases; and/or I have performed research on non-routine issues; and/or I have analyzed affirmative action plans and reports to determine employment barriers; and/or I have surveyed staff or applicants on employment or retention issues and provided summarized results of findings to management officials; and/or I have clarified factual and/or legal issues. None of the above. 8 Recruitment Specialists must be knowledgeable in a variety of areas and pay systems. They will advise candidates on qualifications, application procedures, pay or benefits information and recruitment/retention incentives. The BOP utilizes both PHS and Civil Service candidates to fill clinical positions and as such, they must be knowledgeable of application procedures and general benefits information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised management and applicants on appropriate use of and prepared paperwork for recruitment bonus pay, retention allowance requests, etc., through appropriate regional, central office employees for approval; and/or I have provided applicants with pertinent data regarding hiring procedures, including applicant qualifications as it related to licensor or certification. I have performed duties that assisted special emphasis program manager with various activities; and/or I have participated in effective recruitment training course; and/or I have assisted recruiters at recruitment job fairs; and/or I have provided callers with information regarding basic application procedures, referring more specific questions to co-workers/superiors as necessary; and/or I have conducted research using basic reference materials. I have scheduled and performed personal interviews with applicants in order to explain the Bureau systems and other aspects of employment; and/or I have composed job advertisements or announcements. I have analyzed special salary rate requests and drafted documentation for DOJ/OPM review in support of same; and/or I have explained pay incentives to highly qualified applicants and answered questions; and/or I have worked as a career or employment counselor; and/or I have prepared complaint acceptance letters. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Recruitment Specialists communicate orally with a wide variety of individuals at all levels, including complainants and their representatives, and BOP, EEOC, and DOJ staff members. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to and provided guidance to staff regarding routine policy questions; and/or I have conducted interviews to obtain information; and/or I have advised staff of new developments relating to operations of Employee Services; and/or I have performed duties as an alternate special emphasis program manager. I have advised staff members of Affirmative Action Committee procedures and processes; and/or I have conducted a job analysis interview; and/or I have presented departmental overviews at new employee orientation; and/or I have answered questions posed by institution executive staff. I have presented case facts to the supervisor; and/or I have provided various callers with general information regarding EEO or Affirmative Action procedures; and/or I have performed duties as a special emphasis program manager; and/or I have screened and referred EEO-related calls to appropriate staff members. None of the above. 5 Recruitment Specialists communicate in writing with a wide variety of individuals, both inside and outside the BOP. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a position evaluation; and/or I have prepared memorandums outlining complaint procedures; and/or I have prepared correspondence requesting relevant case documents; and/or I have prepared responses to inmate complaints. I have composed summaries of agency policy in response to public inquiries; and/or I have written letters advising applicants or employees of the complaint process; and/or I have prepared responses to employment inquiries from outside applicants; and/or I have written instructions for newly established forms; and/or I have written professional letters to local interest groups. I have assisted a supervisor in writing a position description; and/or I have prepared written responses to requests for information; and/or I have prepared memorandums or letters for supervisors or executive staff signatures. None of the above. 6 Recruitment Specialists interpret and apply Affirmative Action policies and procedures in accordance with standard personnel practices (e.g., recruitment, selection, placement, and disciplinary actions). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a recruiter at a job fair; and/or I have assisted applicants with the on-line application procedures; and/or I have composed a vacancy announcement or job advertisement; and/or I have handled inquiries regarding the status of various vacancy announcements. I have drafted responses to employment inquiries from outside applicants; and/or I have explained qualification requirements to applicants; and/or I have notified applicants of selection decisions. I have calculated employee retirement eligibility status; and/or I have prepared orientation material for new employees; and/or I have prepared complaint acceptance letters; and/or I have contacted applicant references for background information. I have determined applicant qualifications for a position; and/or I have responded to questions on retirement; and/or I have researched and identified resources to answer personnel related questions. None of the above. 7 Recruitment Specialists review and analyze management practices, policies, organizational structure and employment trends. They develop employment programs designed to identify systemic equal employment faced by employees and job applicants, and advise management on effective solutions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered a variety of information as directed by a supervisor; and/or I have assisted a higher graded employee evaluate information and present it to a supervisor; and/or I have interviewed individuals involved in complaints. I have analyzed case issues; and/or I have developed and/or evaluated evidence; and/or I have performed legal research on non-routine issues; and/or I have analyzed affirmative action plans and reports to determine employment barriers; and/or I have participated on an Affirmative Action or Employee Services/Personnel Program or Operational Review; and/or I have resolved conflicting data; and/or I have clarified factual and legal issues. With direction, I have located relevant reference and supporting documentation; and/or I have gathered basic information and summarized it into a report; and/or I have drafted routine reports. None of the above. 8 Recruitment Specialists provide leadership to management staff in the development and implementation of the EEOC Management Directive 715, Section 503 Affirmative Action Program, Title VII Affirmative Employment Program, and OPM Federal Equal Opportunity Recruitment Program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted volunteer EEO counselors with the informal processing of complaints; and/or I have provided information to employees on the EEO complaint process; and/or I have performed duties as a special emphasis program manager; and/or I have provided information to employees regarding benefits packages; and/or I have worked as a career or employment counselor; and/or I have prepared complaint acceptance letters. I have provided applicants with pertinent data regarding hiring procedures; and/or I have requested case documents; and/or I have provided callers with information regarding complaint application procedures; and/or I have composed job advertisements or announcements. I have performed the duties that assisted special emphasis program manager with various activities; and/or I have participated in EEO training; and/or I have assisted recruiters at a recruitment job fairs; and/or I have provided callers with information regarding basic application procedures; and/or I have conducted research using basic reference materials. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).