Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-8 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If using education to qualify, applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational credentials. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Electronics Technician has direct and frequent contact with institutional staff, the regional and Central Office, manufacturers, contractors, distributors and research organizations. Effective oral and written communication skills are required to effectively provide technical assistance, obtain needed information and stay abreast of new equipment/techniques used in electronics and telecommunication systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical input to improve an established training course (e.g., ART, IF, etc.); and/or I have maintained schedules and tracking systems for maintenance on electronic equipment and systems; and/or I have provided verbal instructions to others assisting in the installation of cables and wire management type systems. I have, under supervision, prepared a Statement of Work for projects/tasks assigned; and/or I have evaluated bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications; and/or I have analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications. I have provided technical input on the completion of a Statement of Work for projects/tasks assigned; and/or I have submitted information to lead technicians on bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications. I have developed and facilitated training courses on a variety of new telecommunication systems being implemented for use; and/or I have coordinated with external personnel to resolve telecommunications issues. I have analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications; and/or I have presented an established training course on telecommunications systems to others (i.e., during ART, IF, etc.); and/or I have communicated with internal personnel to resolve telecommunications issues. None of the above. 3 The Electronics Technician must apply their knowledge of the theory and principles of electronics to perform the duties involved in the installation, maintenance, modification, trouble diagnosis, and subsequent repair of a wide variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the installation of a limited number of complex electronics systems (i.e., key telephone systems, Relay Control Logic, Basic Radio Systems, Stand Alone Fire Alarm Systems, etc.); and/or I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, such as consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, etc.. I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems (i.e., consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, fiber optics, etc.). I have performed routine electronics functions (replaced/changed PC boards, etc.) and/or I have mentored or provided basic electronic information to others; and/or I have completed an on-line/home study course in electronics theory and principles; and/or I have maintained or performed basic repairs to consumer electronics. I have performed routine electronics functions (i.e., replaced and/or changed defective printed circuit PC boards, etc.); and/or I have completed a Vocational Training course in electronics; and/or I have completed a manufacturer's required training course that did not result in or require certification. I have assisted lower level employees in completing technical electronics related assignments (i.e., performs routine electronics functions) (diagnosed, replaced, changed printed circuit PC boards, etc.); and/or I have attended manufacturer training seminars on various electronic systems. None of the above. 4 The Electronics Technician is considered the institution's technical expert in the areas of electronics and telecommunications systems utilized in a correctional environment. He/she is required to perform trouble diagnosis on equipment covering a broad spectrum of technologies and ranging in complexity from the relatively simple to the highly complex. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (PABX Telephone Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have, with supervision, performed non-complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (PABX Telephone System) and performed visual inspections using multimeters and basic hand tools to determine voltage levels continuity. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone PLC System) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have, with supervision, used diagnostic software to diagnose system status and programming compliance; and/or I have performed basic troubleshooting on software and hardware; and/or I have repaired at system level, using routine electronics test equipment (e.g., multi-meters and hand tools). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (Base Radio Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have, with supervision, performed non-complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone PLC System) and performed visual inspections using multimeters and basic hand tools to determine voltage levels continuity. I have, with supervision, performed non-complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (Base Radio Systems) and performed visual inspections using multimeters and basic hand tools to determine voltage levels continuity. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone mechanical Fire Alarm Systems) checking with multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (light loss, breaks, light loss due to microbends), and oscilloscopes (digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have, with supervision, performed non-complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone mechanical Fire Alarm Systems) and performed visual inspections using multimeters and basic hand tools to determine voltage levels continuity. None of the above. 5 The Electronics Technician must possess current knowledge of regulations, laws, policies, standards and procedures related to electronics and telecommunications systems. He/she must be able to interpret and locally apply policies to effectively maintain, diagnose and repair electronic and telecommunications systems in a Bureau of Prisons correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed routine electronics functions (replaced/changed PC boards, etc.); and/or I have mentored or provided basic electronic information to others; and/or I have installed home electronic devices/systems according to manufacturer's specifications and instructions. I have assisted in the installation of complex electronics systems (i.e., PABX phone systems, PLC Systems, radio systems, Fire Alarms, etc.); and/or I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, such as consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, fiber optics, etc.; and/or I have attended informal seminars for code updates and procedures (i.e., NEC-70, etc.) I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, (i.e., consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, fiber optics, etc.); and/or I have asked clarifying questions to others regarding regulations, policies and/or procedures; and/or I have utilized available technical reference materials (i.e., vendors, hotlines, internet, etc.) to research and prepare for job assignments. None of the above. Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Electronics Technician has direct and frequent contact with institutional staff, the regional and Central Office, manufacturers, contractors, distributors and research organizations. Effective oral and written communication skills are required to effectively provide technical assistance, obtain needed information and stay abreast of new equipment/techniques used in electronics and telecommunication systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a Statement of Work for projects/tasks assigned; and/or I have evaluated bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications; and/or I have analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications. I have provided technical input on the completion of a Statement of Work for projects/tasks assigned; and/or I have submitted information to lead technicians on bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications; and/or I have analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications. With supervision, I have prepared a Statement of Work for projects/tasks assigned; and/or with supervision, I have evaluated bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications; and/or with supervision, I have analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications. I have developed and facilitated a training course on telecommunication systems being implemented for use; and/or I have coordinated with external personnel to resolve critical telecommunications issues. I have presented an established training course on telecommunications systems to others (i.e., during ART, IF, etc.); and/or I have communicated with internal personnel to resolve telecommunications issues. With supervision, I have developed and facilitated training courses on a variety of new telecommunication systems being implemented for use; and/or with supervision, I have coordinated with external personnel to resolve telecommunications issues. None of the above. 3 The Electronics Technician must apply their knowledge of the theory and principles of electronics to perform the duties involved in the installation, maintenance, modification, trouble diagnosis, and subsequent repair of a wide variety of sophisticated and complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the planning and implementation of the installation of complex electronics systems (software and hardware) (PABX telephone systems, Programmable Logic Controller PLC systems, Radio Systems, Fire Alarm Systems); and/or I have supervised lower level employees in completing technical electronics related assignments (e.g., performs routine electronics functions (diagnosed, replaced, changed defective printed circuit PC boards, etc.). I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, (i.e., consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, fiber optics, etc.); and/or I have assisted lower level employees in completing technical electronics related assignments (i.e., performed routine electronics functions (diagnosed, replaced, changed printed circuit PC boards, etc.)); and/or I have attended manufacturer training seminars on various electronic systems. I have assisted in the installation of a limited number of complex electronics systems (i.e., key telephone systems, Relay Control Logic, Basic Radio Systems, stand alone Fire Alarm Systems, etc); and/or I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, such as consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, etc. I have completed some formal educational requirements for an associates level or equivalent technical degree (secondary level technical school, military, etc.) in electronics principles and theory; and/or I have completed certification requirements for at least one systems manufacturers certification. I have performed routine electronics functions (i.e., replaced and/or changed defective printed circuit PC boards, etc.); and/or I have completed a Vocational training course in electronics; and/or I have completed a manufacturer's required training course that did not result in or require certification. None of the above. 4 The Electronics Technician is considered the institution's technical expert in the areas of electronics and telecommunications systems utilized in a correctional environment. He/she is required to perform trouble diagnosis on equipment covering a broad spectrum of technologies and ranging in complexity from the relatively simple to the highly complex. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (PABX Telephone System) checking the system using multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength/loss due to microbends, breaks in fiber optic material, connector integrity), & oscilloscopes (digital/analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed non-complex trouble diagnostics (software and hardware) and repairs on a basic variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems with supervision (i.e., PABX Telephone System, stand alone PLC System, Base Radio Systems and stand alone mechanical Fire Alarm systems); and/or I have performed visual inspections using multimeters and basic hand tools to determine voltage levels and continuity. I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (non-redundant networked PLC System) checking the system using multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength/loss due to microbends, breaks in fiber optic material, connector integrity), & oscilloscopes (digital/analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software and hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (PABX Telephone System) using multimeters (checking voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (checking for light loss, breaks, light loss due to m icrobends), and oscilloscopes (checking digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (Radio Repeater Systems) checking the system using multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength/loss due to microbends, breaks in fiber optic material, connector integrity), & oscilloscopes (digital/analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software and hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone PLC System) using multimeters (checking voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (checking for light loss, breaks, light loss due to m icrobends), and oscilloscopes (checking digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software/hardware) and repairs on a wide variety of complex electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone digital Fire Alarm Systems) checking the system using multimeters (voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDR's (light strength/loss due to microbends, breaks in fiber optic material, connector integrity), & oscilloscopes (digital/analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software and hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (Base Radio Systems) using multimeters (checking voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (checking for light loss, breaks, light loss due to m icrobends), and oscilloscopes (checking digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). I have performed complex trouble diagnostics (software and hardware) and repairs on a general variety of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment and systems, (stand alone mechanical Fire Alarm Systems) using multimeters (checking voltage levels, drops, resistance, polarity, continuity), OTDRs (checking for light loss, breaks, light loss due to m icrobends), and oscilloscopes (checking digital and analog signal strength, amplitude, polarity, wave forms, multipath). None of the above. 5 The Electronics Technician must possess current knowledge of regulations, laws, policies, standards and procedures related to electronics and telecommunications systems. He/she must be able to interpret and locally apply policies to effectively maintain, diagnose and repair electronic and telecommunications systems in a Bureau of Prisons correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, (i.e., consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, fiber optics, etc.); and/or I have asked clarifying questions to others regarding regulations, policies and/or procedures; and/or I have utilized available technical reference materials (i.e., vendors, hotlines, internet, etc.) to research and prepare for job assignments. I have assisted in the planning and implementation of the installation of complex electronics systems (i.e., PABX telephone systems, Programmable Logic Controller systems, Radio Systems, Fire Alarm Systems); and/or I have supervised lower level employees in completing technical electronic related assignments (i.e., diagnoses, replaces, changed defective printed circuit boards, etc.). I have assisted in the installation of complex electronics systems (i.e., PABX phone systems, PLC Systems, radio systems, Fire Alarms, etc.); and/or I have maintained/repaired non-complex electronics systems, such as consumer electronics, home alarms, master antenna systems, CCTV systems, camera systems, fiber optics, etc.; and/or I have attended informal seminars for Code updates and procedures (i.e., NEC-70, etc.). I have provided management with technical information; and/or I have participated on an operational review or comparable internal audit covering the electronics and telecommunication systems area. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).