Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Performed supervisory including: 1) planned work for subordinates, 2) set short-term work priorities, 3) assigned work based on employee priorities and capabilities, 4) identified training and developmental needs of team, 5) monitored the progress of work, 6) heard complaints from employees and recommended resolution to the supervisor, and 7) informed the supervisor of performance issues and recommended related actions. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the lead responsibilities listed above. Performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the lead responsibilities listed above. Performed FOUR (4) of the supervisory responsibilities listed above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of multimedia production.** Planned and managed products involving the capture, edit and presentation of information, cultural productions and public information.This included completion of video capture of webcasts, mini-documentaries, special programs, promotional materials and other related products. Oversees the planning/execution of the following: 1) audio/video production service, 2) operation/configuration of audio equipment, 3) operation/configuration of broadcast &amp; cinema grade video cameras, 4) operation/configuration of live video control room, 5) selection of equipment, 6) ensuring proper working condition of all equipment, 7) plans/carries out steps of production and solves commonly occurring problems, such as scheduling conflicts and equipment breakdowns, 8) timely multimedia processing/editing of content, 9) employment of new techniques to amplify/enhance the message and use of display and presentation software to deliver multimedia content users. Answer to this question is required Served as an EXPERT in multimedia systems, techniques, and technologies, digital format conversion, video capture, audio capture and enhancement, content editing, and presentation technologies. Plans and manages multimedia projects. Oversaw the scheduling, writing, design, and production of selected media. Oversaw the planning and execution of ALL of the above tasks. Served as an AUTHORITY in multimedia systems, techniques, and technologies, digital format conversion, video capture, audio capture and enhancement, content editing, and presentation technologies. Oversaw components of the scheduling, writing, design, and production of selected media. Oversaw the planning and execution of SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above tasks. Served as a SPECIALIST in multimedia systems, techniques, and technologies, digital format conversion, video capture, audio capture and enhancement, content editing, and presentation technologies. Assisted in planning and managing multimedia projects. Oversaw the planning and execution of FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of industry standard media production and post production methods and techniques.** Served as a subject matter expert and had responsibility for production values and aesthetic qualities and control of the artistic and creative aspects of the work. Answer to this question is required Planned, scheduled and executed work in a state-of-the-art production and post-production facility, including film transfers, audio transfers, editing, digital conversion, and duplication. Served as a subject matter expert with responsibility for production values and aesthetic qualities and control of the artistic and creative aspects of the work. Scheduled and executed work in a state-of-the-art production and post-production facility, including film transfers, audio transfers, editing, digital conversion, and duplication. Served as a subject matter expert and had responsibility for production values and aesthetic qualities and control of the artistic and creative aspects of the work. Executed work in a state-of-the-art production and post-production facility, including film transfers, audio transfers, editing, digital conversion, and duplication. Served as a subject matter expert for production values and aesthetic qualities and control of the artistic and creative aspects of the work. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced written products related to the work area of the position including: 1) work schedules, 2) performance appraisals, 3) records of work accomplishments, 4) formal and informal correspondence, 5) reports, 6) research and analyses, and 7) strategic plans. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote ALL of the above while serving as an audiovisual production specialist. Independently wrote FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above as an audiovisual production specialist. Independently wrote FOUR (4) of the above as an audiovisual production specialist. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to resolve production issues and problems. Utilized skill in modifying or adapting standard practices and procedures to resolve technical or interpersonal difficulties that arise during production. This included the following: 1)&nbsp;&nbsp;performed&nbsp;processes, methodologies, personnel, equipment, and related requirements involved in planning and carrying out steps necessary to produce well-precedented kinds of audiovisual productions, coordinat ed&nbsp; activities and made administrative and logistical arrangements; 2) provided basic technical support, including electronic playback of musical or vocal selections, electronically enhanced; and 3) resolved problems that arise during the course of the production, such as improvising additional narration or camera shots when scripted directions appear inadequate for instructional purposes, or demonstrating action sequences to on professional performers to achieve a more natural appearance. Answer to this question is required Independently utilized skill in modifying and adapting standard practices and procedures to resolve technical or interpersonal difficulties that arise during production. Routinely utilized skill in modifying or adapting standard practices and procedures to resolve technical or interpersonal difficulties that arise during production. With minimum assistance utilized skill in modifying or adapting standard practices and procedures to resolve technical or interpersonal difficulties that arise during production. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to provide advice and guidance. Provided advice and guidance related to multimedia productions to: 1) resolve, implement, or manage program or policy issues, 2) prepare short and long range planning guidance, 3) prepare guidance based on analyses, and 4) consult with management to prepare detailed goals, objectives and requirements for complex or high-value processes and systems. This also included providing advice and guidance in the coordination of work efforts of technical personnel in conducting conceptual systems analyses, evaluations, or investigations of highly unstructured and interconnected problems involving controversial and complex administrative or production related issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Provided advice and guidance in completing ALL of the above duties. Provided advice and guidance in completing THREE (3) of the above duties. Provided advice and guidance in completing TWO (2) of the above duties. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).