Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 96 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your highest level of education. Answer to this question is required I have a law degree from an accredited university or college. I have a master's degree from an accredited university or college. I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college. None of the above. 2 Have you ever developed or managed program budgets? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience collecting, interpreting and analyzing data to measure and improve program effectiveness or productivity? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 4 Which strategic planning and performance measurement tasks have you performed? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have aligned and developed functional-area (e.g. unit or branch) tactical plans derived from division or organization strategic plans. I have set program or project operational plan objectives and tactics. I have monitored and tracked program and functional-area accomplishments. I have established and tracked program-related performance measures. I have established and monitored quality control and quality assurance processes. I have set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. I have planned and adjusted work operations to meet changing requirements within available resources and with limited sacrifice of quantity or quality of work. I have prepared schedules for completion of work. I have assigned work to team members based on priorities. None of the above. 5 Which leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Setting performance measures, standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing staff training budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to staff. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with staff on assignments. Allocating resources. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Delegating responsibilities to staff. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. Rewarding and recognizing outstanding performance. Providing career development opportunities. Managing diversity. Forming teams by identifying team members based on their skills and leading them to achieve goals important to the organization. None of the above. 6 Which statement best describes your experience preparing and presenting reports to executive level managers? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).