Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: A graduate or higher level degree that included: An occupational therapy curriculum approved by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) or a professional accrediting organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained; AND Completion of the clinical requirements prescribed by the school. AND Certification: &nbsp; Applicants must have passed the national examination administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT). 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST &nbsp;electronically upload college transcripts, verfication of completion of the clinical requirements and the National Board for Certification Of Occupational Thereapy (NBCOT) certification&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 2 Applicants applying for this position MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must have a current valid&nbsp;state license to practice occupational therapy. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a current valid state license to practice occupational therapy. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit a copy of their license. This documentation MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Occupational Therapist must have mastered current and accepted theories and practices of Occupational Therapy procedures. They must have vast knowledge and be able to demonstrate that they are qualified to perform and administer specific modalities utilized in Occupational Therapy. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected, prescribed and completed therapeutic exercise treatment plans; and/or I have implemented various treatment modalities; and/or I have developed treatment plans that incorporated the use of therapeutic exercise and modalities. I have selected, prescribed and implemented exercise and treatment activities in accordance with the evaluation findings; and/or I have monitored and evaluated the quality of all patient care providing data to/from the secure Audit and Quality Assurance Committee. Under supervision, I have selected and carried out a therapeutic treatment plan; and/or I have experience with treatment modalities, under supervision; and/or I have experience incorporating exercise and modalities into treatment plans, under supervision. I have selected, prescribed and implemented the use of treatment modalities to minimize or alleviate dysfunction; and/or I have developed treatment plans that incorporate the use of therapeutic exercise and a variety of treatment modalities that have been selected for use in an individualized treatment plan. None of the above. 4 Occupational Therapists must be able to interact professionally and clearly communicate with others. They conduct meetings, training sessions and inform others such as physicians, hospital administrators, medical support, procurement, custody and management staff, as well as personnel of other departments within the institution regarding patient care.&nbsp; In addition, they have contact with contract/consultant medical staff and other government agencies. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to specific requests from staff and/or inmates for information, as appropriate; and/or I have counseled patients, teaching them as required/needed; and/or I have exchanged information with patients and other health care professionals; and/or I have explained to another staff member regarding modified Occupational Therapy program for a patient. I have mentored and taught various medical staff such as Therapy/Rehabilitation Assistants or support services regarding daily duties; and/or I have expressed complex material in a clear and lucid way to achieve set objectives; and/or in some cases, I have communicated and taught patients pertaining to individual medical needs.; I have conducted patient groups; and/or I have worked/communicated professionally with other medical staff including physicians, nurses and midlevel practitioners; and/or I have used persuasive communication skills in order to motivate patients. I have provided and influenced treatment in an inpatient care/multi-disciplinary setting in crisis and non-crisis situations; and/or I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or I have facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have used persuasive communication skills with contract/consultant medical staff and other governmental agencies. None of the above. 5 Occupational Therapists must be&nbsp;excellent communicators, in writing and otherwise.&nbsp; They must be able to document all pertinent patient information in medical charts, complete written documentation as needed to be included in patient files and transcribe, review and execute physician consultation requests.&nbsp; They must possess strong written communication skills in order to produce effective written documentation on patient medical needs and service required. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written technical reports and other related information clearly describing information; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedures; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have documented patient charts for use by other medical professionals in making medical needs determinations. I have prepared work orders, supply requisitions, etc.; and/or I have prepared informational memorandums for internal use describing incidents or events; and/or I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have submitted required requests to Health Services Administrator for services, supplies and/or equipment with justifications, if necessary. I have assured all Occupational Therapy and support staff maintained records properly; and/or I have completed Consultation Reports and Interim Progress Reports in accordance with medical record guidelines; and/or I have communicated evaluation findings and treatment approaches to patients and other health care providers; and/or I have documented evaluation findings and treatment plan in medical chart in a way that is understandable to other health care providers. None of the above. 6 Occupational Therapists must have knowledge of care principles, practices, procedures, and be able to apply this knowledge to daily patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented treatments including but not limited to therapeutic exercise, massage, and physical agents such as air, water, electricity, sound and radiant energy; and/or I have performed diagnostic tests, measurements and interpreted results; and/or I have applied Occupational Therapy principles and concepts to evaluate and treat patients with a variety of disorders; and/or I have developed comprehensive treatment plans and monitored patient progress. I have developed, planned, and implemented treatment plans; and/or I have provided Occupational Therapy evaluations using specialized tests. I have utilized treatment plans and monitored plans as necessary; and/or I have utilized evaluation procedures and tools; and/or I have performed basic evaluation before treating patients, with supervision. I have developed objective and comprehensive treatment plans and treatments; and/or I have provided rehabilitative care and treatments for patients suffering from paralysis, musculoskeletal injury, peripheral neuritis or other nerve injuries; and/or I have used a variety of evaluation procedures and tools. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).