Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A doctoral degree in Pharmacy that is recognized by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. OR Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree, Ph.D., Pharm.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. AND B. Licensure: Applicants also must be licensed to practice pharmacy in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Medical Requirement: Applicants must be able to distinguish shades of color. NOTE: Employees currently assigned to positions in this occupational series as of September 2017 will be considered to have met the basic requirements for the position occupied. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcipts and pharmacy license documentation at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Staff Pharmacist must have the ability to provide advice and instructional information to patients, medical staff and other institution personnel in pharmaceutical matters as well as security and other areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided update regarding pharmacy information during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted senior staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have counseled patients and/or conveyed technical information to others. I have presented complex and/or technical information to external personnel which resulted in case resolution; and/or I have participated on agency advisory panel; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work-related issues; and/or I have lectured to other professionals and community groups;and/or I have taught a course or presented technical information to an audience. I have informed supervisor on an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed probation officers on inmate case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered. None of the above. 4 The Staff Pharmacist must have the ability to properly select, mix and dispense a variety of therapeutic agents.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed special formulas, extemporaneous compounding and special preparations; and/or I have served as authoritative consultant and advisor on known potential affects of new and/or investigational drugs; and/or I have provided expert information in side-effects of any prescription or non-prescription medication; and/or I have formulated approved pharmacy medication list. I have mixed and dispensed routine prescriptions; and/or I have followed pre-approved office drug lists; and/or I am familiar/identified the effects of drugs on the approved office drug list. I have with guidance, prepared more complex agents for dispensing; and/or I have researched to determine side effects of specific medications; and/or I have checked and reported all medication variances. None of the above. 5 The Staff Pharmacist must have knowledge of the procedures, duties and responsibilities involved in managing a full service pharmacy&nbsp; Program in an outpatient clinic setting.&nbsp; Regular recurring tasks require a knowledge of a wide variety of pharmaceuticals, and understanding the role the pharmacy plays in the overall health care program.&nbsp; Tasks require knowledge of proper record-keeping maintaining adequate inventories, estimating budget requirements and maintaining security of controlled pharmaceutical items. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as staff pharmacist in-charge or served as the Chief Pharmacist to review prescription to assure accuracy, to ascertain the needed ingredients and to evaluate their suitability; and/or I have worked as pharmacist in charge to guide and assist others; worked as a team member in a large professional pharmacy environment; and/or I have worked as staff pharmacist in retail privately owned pharmacy or pharmacy store franchise. I have estimated and submitted budgets; and/or I have ordered stored and dispensed medications; and/or I have served in an advisory capacity on matters related to pharmacy operations; and/or I have maintained strict daily inventory of all controlled substances; and/or I have performed monthly narcotic audits; and/or I have maintained strict compliance with the American Correctional Association (ACA) and other accrediting agencies. I have, under supervision, worked as a staff or contract pharmacist adjudicating, dispensing or checking prescriptions and maintained proper pharmacy records and inventories; and/or I have worked as a student pharmacist intern or extern or served as a pharmacy technician by preparing medications for final verification or maintain pharmacy inventories and records; and/or I have performed specific audits at the discretion of pharmaceutical committee and/or Chief Pharmacist. None of the above. 6 The Staff Pharmacist, on occasion, as well as all employees working in a correctional environment, must react to crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in providing emergency medical attention to an inmate who had been injured; and/or I have maintained security of pharmacy area during an emergency situation; and/or I have followed established guidelines during a fire drill; and/or I have assisted in restraining an inmate who was having a medical emergency. I have notified the supervisor/correctional services supervisor after detaining an inmate found picking a lock; and/or I have sounded the alarm and took corrective action to contain a small fire; and/or I have intervened to prevent a fight between inmates; and/or I have assisted in coordinating efforts to move a critically injured inmate from housing unit to an ambulance. I have effectively calmed a volatile inmate; and/or I have during an institution altercation or disturbance, filled emergency prescription due to like-threatening situation; and/or I have during an incident in the medical area, served in supervisory capacity and directed pharmacy staff and other medical staff on specific procedures to be taken; and/or I have participated in an escape hunt to capture escapees. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).