Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to conduct legislative and congressional legal research and analysis.** Performed legislative and congressional legal research and analysis on various problems, questions, or situations. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience independently researching and analyzing documents and materials on difficult and emerging legislative and congressional issues. Example: Drafted policies and procedures implementing new and amended legislation which may significantly affect the organization or agency. Experience researching and analyzing documents and materials on moderately difficult legislative and congressional issues. Experience researching and analyzing documents and materials on routine legislative and congressional issues. Research was conducted at the direction of a more senior analyst. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to provide liaison and coordination activities.** Planned, scheduled and carried out high-level legislative assignments and tasks. Developed and maintained relationships with various officials, other Federal agencies, and Members of Congress. Answer to this question is required Served as a principal liaison to various stakeholders inside and outside an organization and established relationships with others including senior management to coordinate and share resources and information. Interacted with advisory groups, representatives from cultural institutions, and national and international organizations. Served as a principal liaison to various stakeholders inside and outside an organization and established relationships with others to coordinate and share resources and information. Interacted with advisory groups, representatives from cultural institutions, and national and international organizations. Served as a principal liaison to various stakeholders inside and/or outside an organization and maintained relationships with others to coordinate and share resources and information. Interacted with advisory groups, representatives from cultural institutions, and/or national and international organizations. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote clear, cogent, accurate and understandable work products. These documents include: 1) analyses, 2) analytical documents, 3) briefing books, 4) biographies, 5) background reports, 6) compilations, 7) surveys, 8) comparisons of laws and bills, 9) legislative proposals, 10) responses to congressional inquiries, and 11) policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared ALL of the above documents with complex variables within the Legislative areas relating to the development, interpretation, or implementation of sensitive public policies of national or international significance to an organization or agency. Independently prepared EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above documents with complex variables within the Legislative areas relating to the development, interpretation, or implementation of sensitive public policies of national or international significance to an organization or agency. Independently prepared SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents with complex variables within the Legislative areas relating to the development, interpretation, or implementation of sensitive public policies of national or international significance to an organization or agency. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to present information orally.** Conveyed information orally in a clear, well-organized, and grammatically correct manner, such as in: 1) interviews, 2) presentations, 3) briefings of agency management, and 4) individual and group discussions. Answer to this question is required Independently conveyed information orally in a clear, well-organized, and grammatically correct manner for ALL of the activities listed above. Under the guidance of a supervisor, conveyed information orally in a clear, well-organized, and grammatically correct manner for AT LEAST THREE (3) of the activities listed above. Under the guidance of a supervisor, conveyed information orally in a clear, well-organized, and grammatically correct manner for AT LEAST TWO (2) of the activities listed above. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).