Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Supervisory Contract Specialist must be able to effectively express a wide array of information and ideas to people within and outside the organization.&nbsp; He/she must be able to use tact and diplomacy with various parties in the negotiation process.&nbsp; He/she meets and deals with contractors, technical staff, program managers, cost center managers, senior corporate officials and state and local officials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to subordinates; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have conducted a pre-negotiation conference with program officials to clarify a solicitation requirement. I have informed supervisor of issues affecting contracts; I have gathered information on request for proposal numbers; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting. I have negotiated contracts; I have informed contractors of status of solicitations; and/or I have assisted staff in negotiating on price and terms of contracts; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions of a contract; and/or I have interviewed contractors and vendors. None of the above. 4 The Supervisory Contract Specialist must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she must be able to prepare reports, contract documents, performance appraisals and other correspondence.&nbsp; He/she must be able to write and update local procurement policy for the institution.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared price evaluations to determine fair and reasonable price; and/or I have prepared amendments to solicitations; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information (FOIA) requests; and/or I have prepared negotiation memoranda; and/or I have written cure notices, show cause letters, and termination letters. I have completed unauthorized commitment memos; and/or I have prepared inter-office memos; and/or I have completed solicitation/offer/awards forms; and/or I have prepared release of claims from contract closeout forms or standard modification forms. I have responded to congressionals; and/or I have written determinations and findings that documented actions taken in contracts; and/or I have made recommendations for Statements of Work to technical staff; and/or I have responded in writing to public inquiries on sensitive issues; and/or I have written memos to address discrepancies in contracts; and/or I have prepared solicitations, modifications, and cancellations; and/or I have developed organizational procedures; and/or I have recommended and implemented procurement policy affecting the agency; and/or I have written pre/post award reviews of solicitations/contracts; and/or I have developed guidance material for program personnel. None of the above. 5 The Supervisory Contract Specialist must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, awarding, administering and closing-out contracts.&nbsp; He/she must be able to provide insight and guidance regarding procurement regulation to subordinate staff and technical or program staff.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched issues for management and program office personnel regarding procurement options; and/or I have applied the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) in formulating, awarding, and administering contracts; and/or I have interpreted and applied agency regulations to resolve conflict over price, cost, and/or technical issues; and/or I have applied procurement regulation in purchasing diversified types of supplies, equipment, services, and construction. I have used laws to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish agreement between agencies; and/or I have provided information to supervisor on service & supply contracts. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements, or other instructional/regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simple acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method and type of contract. None of the above. 6 The Supervisory Contract Specialist must have knowledge of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types and the proper clauses, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and providing supervision and training.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for guiding subordinate staff in the proper procurement techniques to apply in certain situations.&nbsp; He/she is also responsible for the administration of the contracts to include monitoring performance issues, issuing modifications, exercising option periods, and settling disputes.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared solicitation packages or sent documents to bidders; and/or I have ensured contractors were in compliance with contract requirements; and/or I have prepared market surveys to determine availability of suppliers. I have determined deficiencies in pre/post award reviews; and/or I have provided instructional guidance on procurement matters; and/or I have performed forecasting techniques to determine the need for a procurement; and/or I have recommended changes to procurement policy/procedures that were implemented by the organization; and/or I have used cost and price analysis to finalize modifications; and/or I have settled contractor disputes. I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have analyzed settlement proposals; and/or I have performed price analysis to determine price reasonableness; and/or I have used pre-award surveys to determine contractor’s eligibility for awards; and/or I have determined type of contract and required contract clauses. None of the above. 7 The Supervisory Contract Specialist must be able to constantly make independent decisions in awarding contracts, determining type of contract, required clauses, and resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contracts.&nbsp; During contract administration, he/she must make decisions regarding any disputes or disagreements that may arise between the contractor and the Government.&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected type of contracts; and/or I have conducted price analysis for determining the most reasonable prices; and/or I have served as member of the evaluation team; and/or I have responded to contractor inquiries regarding contract issues. I have conducted both in-depth cost and price analysis; and/or I have evaluated cost overruns and made adjustments; and/or I have audited contracts and determined if agency was following procurement regulations and policies; and/or I have made award decisions; and/or I have settled disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of contractor in meeting contract requirements. I have reviewed invoices and vouchers to insure accuracy; and/or I have prepared and organized solicitation documents; and/or I have reviewed contractor’s files to determine all requirements were satisfied. None of the above. 8 The Supervisory Contract Specialist must be able to assign responsibility to subordinate staff in order to ensure the efficiency of service provided by financial management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback on office projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to new subordinates in resolving contracting/procurement problems; and/or I have prioritized own work and the work of others in meeting deadlines. I have prioritized work flow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have reviewed current contracting operations to develop new procedures or make adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have performed long range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to due date. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).