Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 [53468] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience includes: securing facts and developing evidence, maintaining liaison with other law enforcement bodies; conducting investigative interviews, record searches and obtaining sworn statements, and preparing written reports of investigative summaries I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. Grade: 13 1 [53390] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience includes: securing facts and developing evidence, maintaining liaison with other law enforcement bodies, conducting investigative interviews, record searches and obtaining sworn statements, and preparing written reports of investigative summaries. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. Grade: All Grades 1 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [16672] An applicant may not have reached his/her 37th birthday at the time of initial appointment to a Federal Law Enforcement covered position within the US Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General; select the answer choice that describes your age: Answer to this question is required I have not yet reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to 30 days from the closing date of this announcement. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have previous service credible under Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) law enforcement provisions sufficient to enable me to retire at age 57 with 20 years of creditable service. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position. I am not eligible to apply for this position. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position; however, I am a preference eligible and can apply for this position. 4 Please indicate which basic criminal investigator training program you have completed successfully. Answer to this question is required I have completed basic criminal investigator training through either the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, FBI Academy, DEA Academy, AFOSI Academy, NIS/NCIS Academy, Postal Inspection Service, or the Army Criminal Investigations course. I have completed basic criminal investigator training program through another federal agency, the state, city, or private sector organization. I have not completed a basic criminal investigator training program. 5 [53444] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to perform complex fraud investigations, to include obtaining information, gathering evidence, or verifying facts? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 6 [53438] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to plan, conduct and coordinate complex criminal, civil and administrative investigations relating to alleged or suspected violations of the federal laws, regulations or rules? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 7 [53448] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to identify areas of potential fraud, waste and abuse against a government program to determine or develop a fraud investigation? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 8 [53435] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to conduct interviews of subjects, witnesses, victims? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 9 Select the law enforcement activities below with which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Making arrests. Conducting physical surveillance. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints. Participating in the execution of search warrants. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas. Seizing and storing evidence. Presenting investigative results to AUSAs for prosecutory determination. Conducting employee misconduct investigations. Conducting bribery investigations. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings. None of the above. 10 [53436] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to prepare written reports of investigative findings, presentations, and briefings in a clear, concise and well organized manner? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 11 Select all of the following types of affidavits that you have written and submitted, sworn, and had approved, that resulted in arrests, indictments or penalties. Answer to this question is required Search warrant affidavits. Criminal complaint affidavits. Arrest warrant affidavits. None of the above. 12 Select all of the written products below that you have experience writing. Answer to this question is required Memoranda of Investigative Activities. Reports of Investigation. Investigative work plans. Administrative reports to management. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations. Responses to Congressional or other interagency inquiries. Briefing papers for senior officials. Speeches or Congressional testimony. Budget proposals or justifications. Press releases or public bulletins. Employee position descriptions. Policy and procedures. Applications for approval for consensual monitoring. Applications for Inspector General subpoenas. Project/Program planning proposals. Training presentations and other training material. Strategic Plans. None of the above. 13 [53442] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to present information to supervisor, peers, managers, and senior level officials in an easily understood manner explaining conclusion, recommendations and/or results? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 14 [53437] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to apply Federal Rules of Evidence, and accepted criminal investigations and law enforcement principles, techniques, methods and procedures? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 15 [53441] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to work in a team environment and maintain an effective working relationship with others? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 16 [53446] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to partner with law enforcement agencies and law professionals to facilitate the detection or prosecution of fraud cases? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 17 [53447] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to collect, evaluate, protect and preserve physical, documentary and sensitive evidence? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 18 [53439] Choose the answer that best describes your ability to encourage and facilitate cooperation from others in order to obtain information? Answer to this question is required I do not have documented federal law enforcement experience in performing this task. I have had documented law enforcement training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I am proficient in this task. My work in this area was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am skilled in this task. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. I am an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task. I possess documented law enforcement experience in performing this task and I have performed this task on the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee, while I ensure compliance with proper procedures. 19 Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed financial facts, prepared databases, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems based on the data, and identified solutions. Answer to this question is required I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions. None of the above. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 20 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 21 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 22 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 23 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).