Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which has provided me with the specialized experience in translating, interpreting, or other work using English and the other language. I have a combination of work equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service (that required English and the other language) AND training at the Defense Language Institute, Foreign Service Institute, or comparable training. My experience does not match any of the choices above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience performing simultaneous and consecutive interpretation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you interpreted at three or more of the following types of events in the targeted language listed on the vacancy: international conferences; negotiations; bilateral meetings; press conferences; traveling delegations; site visits; or official public statements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience serving as a professional interpreter escorting delegations of foreign visitors to the US and/or US delegations abroad? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I occasionally perform this task on the job. I routinely perform this task on the job. I routinely perform this task on the job and serve as a mentor to other interpreters. I routinely perform this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 For which of the following types of organizations have you interpreted at the conference level from English into the targeted language listed on the vacancy and from the targeted language into English? Answer to this question is required U.S. Dept of State (DOS) Other U.S. government agency Foreign Government entity International Organization (IO) Non-governmental organizations Non-profit organization Private sector organization Other None of the above 7 When interpreting consecutively and taking notes, what length of passage are you capable of interpreting? Answer to this question is required One phrase at a time Up to one or two sentences at a time Up to three or four sentences at a time Up to one paragraph of five or six sentences each at a time Up to two or three paragraphs of five or six sentences each at a time Up to four or five paragraphs of five or six sentences each at a time None of the above 8 In which of the following subject area(s) do you interpret on a frequent basis? Answer to this question is required Political Economic Social Legal Scientific Technical Other None of the above 9 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience interpreting at multilateral meetings involving governmental officials at the Ministerial or Cabinet level (or higher) on matters related to national security, foreign aid, or similar issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I occasionally perform this task on the job. I routinely perform this task on the job. I routinely perform this task on the job and serve as a mentor to other interpreters. I routinely perform this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience interpreting for the media? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I occasionally perform this task on the job. I routinely perform this task on the job. I routinely perform this task on the job and serve as a mentor to other interpreters. I routinely perform this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 For which of the following have you served on an interpreter examination panel? Answer to this question is required US Department of State (DOS) Other Federal Government agency Foreign government agency International Organization (IO) Institutions of higher education Other agencies, institutions or organizations None of the above 12 Select all the sources you have drawn upon to increase your knowledge of your target language, particularly as it is used in foreign affairs: Answer to this question is required Academic study Self-study Daily newspapers Foreign affairs journals Weekly newsmagazines Working in a foreign affairs environment Watching or listening to news programs Books None of the above 13 Which of the following activities have you used to hone your skills in the written form of your source language? Answer to this question is required Publishing an article or other piece of writing in that language. Teaching the written form of that language. Taking courses in writing or composition using that language. Taking courses in the spoken form of that language. Taking courses in the grammar of that language. Producing unpublished creative writing in that language. Doing extensive reading in that language. Proofreading the writings of others in that language. None of the above. 14 Select the sources or experiences you have drawn upon to increase your knowledge of contemporary politics, economy, international relations, and cultural life of countries in which languages you have translated are spoken (languages other than English and countries other than the United States): Answer to this question is required Academic courses Daily newspapers Foreign affairs journals Weekly newsmagazines Working in a foreign affairs environment Watching or listening to news programs Serving as a guide or docent at a cultural institution Writing articles or books on the contemporary politics, economy, international relations, and cultural life Books None of the above 15 With which of the following interpreter recruiting activities do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Recommending colleagues for assignments. Networking with colleagues, professional associations, and other entities to locate interpreters for specific language combinations. Recruiting interpreters for assignments. None of the above. 16 With which of the following testing activities do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Test passage selection Test design Designation of error categories Screening r?sum?s of candidates for translation testing Recruiting candidates for translation testing None of the above 17 Have you translated documents onsite at a conference or meeting? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.