Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience leading a diverse team in recycling, trash removal, and cleaning operations of large facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Which activities have you performed as a team leader? Answer to this question is required I have assigned tasks to employees, taking into account workload and skill levels I have reviewed completed work to ensure instructions were followed I have encouraged employees to participate in team planning activities I have communicated information to employees regarding work requirements and timelines I have monitored work progress I have provided technical direction to team members in accomplishing tasks None of the above 3 Which of the following written documents do you have experience preparing? Answer to this question is required Daily email correspondence to employees, peers, and management. Cleaning reports Quality checklists Training requests None of the above. 4 Do you have experience assigning work to employees to distribute the workload? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Do you have experience providing instructions and guidance to individuals who perform custodial work? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience leading employees who perform custodial work. Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to leading skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have led this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 7 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules Lead daily meetings Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Provided feedback on tasks completed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Monitored performance for unsafe practices None of the above 8 Which tools, equipment, and supplies have you maintained for crews? Answer to this question is required Vacuums Cleaning Chemicals Cleaning Charts Mops Brooms Personal protective equipment (e.g. gloves, masks) None of the above 9 Which tasks have you performed with a computer? Answer to this question is required Summarized work performed Completed disciplinary forms Completed leave requests, monitored email, review announcements. Completed absentee reports Ordered supplies Documented resolution of client concerns None of the above 10 Do you have experience handling cleaning chemicals safely? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 12 Have you inspected the work of cleaning crews to ensure that facilities meet standards for cleanliness? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Which of the following cleaning tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Buffed floors Vaccumed Floors Shampooed carpet Moved furniture Set up tables and chairs for meetings Oiled floor cleaning equipment Changed attachments on floor cleaning equipment Swept and mopped floors Cleaned toilets Swept and mopped Dusted furniture, statues, or fixtures Emptied waste/recycling baskets and ashtrays Cleaned waste/recycling baskets None of the above 14 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Material Safety Data Sheets None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.