Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 The Assistant Food Service Administrator must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the food service program with the Food Service Administrator, management of all levels within the institution, vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, and other staff of the institution. He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmates&rsquo; attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gained acceptance of proposals from institutional staff; and/or I have resolved inmate complaints about the food service operations; and/or I have explained proper food service procedures to a disruptive inmate or group of inmates. I have briefed Executive Staff in the absence of the Food Service Administrator; and/or I have conducted staff meetings; and/or I have delegated work assignments; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have presented information to new employees; and/or I have provided Admission and Orientation to newly incarcerated inmates. I have coordinated the special diet needs of an inmate in special housing unit with correctional services; and/or I have confirmed information received from vendors; and/or I have communicated requirements for trash pick-up with appropriate party. None of the above. 3.2 The Assistant Food Service Administrator must be able to independently compose comprehensive reports, write plans, develop nutritional menus, and make recommendations regarding the delivery of the food service program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed inmate time sheets; and/or I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have responded to an inmate request to a staff member regarding a food service issue. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement of corrective action. I have prepared correspondence to a vendor regarding deliveries; and/or I have corresponded with Regional or Central Office/headquarters Food Service Administrators on behalf of the Food Service Administrator; and/or I have participated in an operational review or comparable external audit. None of the above. 3.3 Under the direction of the Food Service Administrator, the Assistant Food Service Administrator is responsible for managing and coordinating all areas of a comprehensive food service delivery program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained accurate records in accordance with procedures on inventory and condition of food supplies; and/or I have informed co-workers on the proper handling and storage procedures for differing food staples; and/or I have been sought out for guidance by others on food service policy and procedures. I have assisted in maintaining accurate food service records; and/or I have provided basic guidance and direction in response to inquiries; and/or I have prepared an inventory analysis to be reviewed and utilized by supervisor. I have developed nutritionally adequate menus; and/or I have contacted vendor regarding deliveries, orders; and/or I have ensured safety and sanitation standards were adhered to; and/or I have tracked expenditures for a segment of a food service budget. None of the above. 3.4 The Assistant Food Service Administrator must have a comprehensive knowledge of all aspects of the Food Service Department, such as food safety, menu development, population trend analysis, monitoring inventory levels and procurement requirements for equipment, food, and supplies needed to operate the program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have demonstrated experience as a Cook Supervisor in the military; and/or I have experience as a cook in a franchise restaurant; and/or i have experience as a cook supervisor in a Bureau of Prisons facility/Agency. I have demonstrated experience as Acting Assistant Food Service Administrator or Manager; and/or I have assisted in presenting a food service training session; and/or I have ensured subordinate workers/inmate crew performed food preparation in accordance with menu specifications. I have enforced safety and sanitation regulations; and/or I have recognized and immediately corrected a deficient area in the preparation of mass quantities of food; and/or I have prepared a stock rotation schedule that resulted in increased food storage/usage efficiency. None of the above. 3.5 The Assistant Food Service Administrator in concert with the Food Service Administrator must possess the ability to assign responsibility and delegate authority in order to effectively assist in directing the operations of a Food Service Department. He/she is also responsible for providing support, direction, and guidance to subordinate employees to maximize their potential for success and career advancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a staff mentor to a new employee; and/or I have trained/supervised uncooperative inmates in basic work procedures; and/or I have observed the process of teamwork and methods/techniques used to derive results; and/or I have identified and notified staff of training or upcoming career enhancement opportunities. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have overseen the preparation and delivery of mainline operations; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding inmate discipline. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have assured work of others is completed within required timeframes; and/or I have provided assistance and direction to subordinates on various levels of work experience. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).