Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree. I possess 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education related to event management, hospitality, communications, or business. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having: (1)&nbsp;Assisting in planning or coordinating events, meetings, or room setups; (2) Coordinating logistics such as space usage, seating layouts, or audiovisual needs; and (3)&nbsp;Communicating with multiple stakeholders to ensure event readiness. &nbsp; Grade: 09 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree. I possess 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education related to event management, hospitality, communications, or business. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having: (1) Independently planning and coordinating special events or meetings; (2) Designing room layouts, managing event schedules, and coordinating vendor services; (3)&nbsp;Collecting and analyzing event data to inform operational improvements; and (4)&nbsp;Serving as a liaison between internal teams and external stakeholders for event execution. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience working with stakeholders to coordinate special events? Answer to this question is required I have independently coordinated events involving multiple internal and external stakeholders. I have supported event coordination by assisting with logistics or communications. I have limited experience communicating with stakeholders for events. I have no experience coordinating or supporting special events. 2 What is your level of experience using event management or facility scheduling systems (e.g., Rules Reservation System, WebTMA)? Answer to this question is required I have regularly used these systems to manage reservations, room setups, and generate reports. I have limited experience using these systems with guidance. I am aware of these systems but haven’t used them professionally. I have no experience with these systems. 3 What best reflects your experience with setting up or directing room layouts for events? Answer to this question is required I have designed and executed layouts based on policy and sponsor requirements. I have assisted in room setups but not led the process. I’ve only observed room setups. I have no experience with room layouts. 4 What is your experience interpreting and applying event related policies or SOPs? Answer to this question is required I have regularly enforced event policies and advised others. I’ve applied policies under supervision. I’ve read policies but haven’t applied them. I have no experience with event related SOPs. 5 Which best describes your experience analyzing data to improve event operations? Answer to this question is required I’ve collected and analyzed data to inform operational decisions. I’ve helped collect data but didn’t analyze it. I’ve only reviewed data provided by others. I have no experience with event related data analysis. 6 Which of the following tasks have you independently performed in support of special event coordination? Answer to this question is required Designed room layouts and seating arrangements Managed catering or audiovisual vendor logistics Scheduled events using a reservation system Drafted post event evaluations or reports Provided on site oversight during events None of the above 7 Which systems or tools have you used in your event planning or facilities coordination work? Answer to this question is required Rules Reservation System WebTMA Microsoft Excel for tracking or reporting AutoCAD or room diagramming software Event management platforms (e.g., Cvent, EMS) None of the above 8 In past roles, what event related communications have you handled? Answer to this question is required Liaised with Senate or Congressional staff Coordinated with internal support teams (e.g., facilities, AV, security) Drafted confirmation emails or briefing memos Provided guidance on AOC or agency event policies Fielded last minute event changes or emergency issues None of the above 9 What data or metrics have you worked with in the context of events? Answer to this question is required Space usage and capacity statistics Catering costs or vendor spending Client demographics or attendee lists Feedback or satisfaction survey results Work order or setup completion rates None of the above 10 What safety responsibilities have you carried out during events? Answer to this question is required Conducted visual inspections of venues Reported or corrected unsafe conditions Ensured PPE was used properly Enforced crowd control or capacity limits Advised sponsors on safety compliance None of the above 11 Have you served as the primary point of contact for coordinating logistics for an official event? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Have you ever developed or followed contingency plans for unexpected event changes or emergencies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Choose the statements that describe your oral communication skills. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Listens actively; asks clarifying questions and summarizes or paraphrases what others have said to verify understanding. Ensures that regular communication occurs based on the needs of the work, the individual, management or the situation. Uses analogies, visuals and other techniques to tailor communications to specific audiences. Identifies and uses effective communication channels and methods (e.g., presentations, electronic dissemination, social media). Utilizes skill in presenting information, analysis, ideas and positions in a clear, succinct, accurate, convincing manner, as is appropriate with the audience. None of the above. 14 What actions have you taken to develop and maintain strong working relationships with internal and external customers? Answer to this question is required Worked with customers to assess their needs in an effort to meet/exceed requirements and expectations. Understood needs and worked within set guidelines and parameters to deliver a timely product or service. Conveyed a positive attitude when interacting with customers and staff. Identified opportunities to improve customer service and satisfaction. Engaged the customer as a partner in delivering service. Recognized that customer feedback is an opportunity to improve performance and identified the need for any changes in service delivery. None of the above. 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.