Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS/GL-10 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS/GL-10. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS/GL-10 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS/GL-10 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-10, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-10, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-09 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-10 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must keep abreast of all emergency equipment utilized by the Bureau of Prisons. They must possess the ability to issue, purchase, maintain and train staff for use to ensure the institution is in a constant state of readiness for emergency situations inherent to a correctional environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained appropriate stock level of disposable restraints; and/or I have assisted in performing inventories of ammunition and firearms; and/or I have prepared purchase requests for emergency equipment, as instructed. I have ensured appropriate restraints were applied in accordance with governing policies and regulations; and/or I have assisted in the cleaning and performing minor repairs to institution firearms; and/or I have inventoried emergency equipment to assist in determining items required to be purchased. I have trained Disturbance Control Squad in the proper maintenance and accountability of equipment; and/or I have recommended equipment for issuance to Disturbance Control Team members; and/or I have ensured firearms were properly cleaned and stored. None of the above. 5 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;are considered the technical expert in the areas of locksmith, security and armory procedures in a federal correctional institution. They must possess comprehensive knowledge of the theories, principles, practices and techniques related to locking devices, keys, emergency equipment, firearms, chemical agents and ammunition. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have pinned a lock according to instructions; and/or I have assisted in maintaining inventory records of supplies; and/or under direct supervision, I have cut basic keys for use by others (i.e., house keys, padlock keys, car keys, etc.); and/or I have used various weapons. I am familiar with hunting weapons and ammunition; and/or I have assisted in pinning basic locking devices; and/or I have completed training course in locks and cutting keys. I have issued keys in accordance with policies and procedures; and/or I have followed guidelines and policy in adding and/or removing a key from a key ring; and/or I have assisted in determining door requirements by reviewing blueprints and plans; and/or I have utilized a variety of weapons used in a correctional environment. None of the above. 6 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess the ability to input, manipulate and retrieve various information from the BOP's security officer program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used WordPerfect; and/or I have sent a GroupWise message; and/or I have used SENTRY. I have marked date received and entered ammunition and chemical agents into an automated system; and/or I have produced recurring reports; and/or I have retrieved requested information from program. I have re-booted computer during malfunctions; and/or I have entered routine data into system; and/or I have printed out forms (i.e., key counts and inventory sheets). None of the above. 7 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;in the Federal Bureau of Prisons&nbsp;are responsible for implementing and maintaining a comprehensive lock shop and armory program within a correctional facility. They must possess the ability to oversee all areas of the program to ensure all facets of security and emergency equipment used is optimized. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in key control; and/or I have checked and counted keys; and/or I have checked locks; and/or I have tested and examined security related equipment. I have served as an Alternate Security Officer; and/or I have assisted in key control as a Control Center Officer; and/or I have reported malfunctioning keys, locks or equipment to appropriate person for action. I have checked stored weapons periodically to ensure readiness status; and/or I have performed preventative maintenance on locks; and/or I have assisted in preparing a security proposal. None of the above. 8 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess the ability to supervise subordinate employees and delegate authority in order to effectively direct a security program within a correctional facility. They are also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinates to maximize their potential for success and career development. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a group project involving co-workers; and/or I have monitored tasks performed by newly hired employees; and/or I have discussed work issues with co-workers; and/or I have notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities. I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have performed official mentor duties for newly hired employees; and/or I have counseled subordinates on work issues; and/or I have assisted other staff in completing training needs assessments; and/or I have identified and notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities. I have performed duties as Control Room Officer; and/or I have performed duties as Officer-In-Charge of a Special Housing Unit; and/or I have performed duties which involving directing other employees. None of the above. 9 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess knowledge of regulations, policies and procedures related to lockshop and armory operations. They must be able to interpret and locally apply policies to effectively administer a Lock and Security program in a Bureau of Prisons Correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in performing corrective action for routine security issues; and/or I have assisted in ensuring security procedures are followed; and/or I have provided information/documentation to an auditor; and/or I have provided input during training. I have implemented corrective action for routine security issues; and/or I have reviewed post orders to ensure security is maintained; and/or I have assisted in performing perpetual audits; and/or I have facilitated training using established lesson plans. I have performed corrective action for routine security issues; and/or I have ensured security procedures are followed; and/or I have assisted in performing an audit; and/or I have assisted in facilitating training. None of the above. 10 Locksmith Supervisors have direct and frequent contact with institutional staff, employees of the regional and Central Office,&nbsp;personnel of local, state and federal agencies, A&amp;E firms, lock manufacturers and weapons/munitions companies. Effective communication skills are required in order to provide technical assistance and obtain information to stay abreast of new equipment and/or techniques used relative to the lockshop, armory and institution security. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered non-technical questions from staff regarding lockshop operations; and/or I have presented findings of internal audit to supervisor for further action; and/or I have discussed security concerns identified with Supervisory Locksmith. I have answered general questions from staff regarding key control; and/or I have provided verbal instructions to an alternate locksmith detailed to the position; and/or I have clarified routine technical information. I have presented an established training class during Annual Refresher Training or Institution Familiarization Training; and/or I have assisted in issuing escape kits; and/or I have communicated with a weapons vendor to obtain information on ammunition, types of weapons or less than lethal munitions; and/or I have contacted equipment vendors to rent and/or purchase needed equipment. None of the above. Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-10 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS/GL-10 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS/GL-10. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS/GL-10 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS/GL-10 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-10, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-10, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-09 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-10 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-10 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must keep abreast of all emergency equipment utilized by the Bureau of Prisons. They must possess the ability to issue, purchase, maintain and train staff for use to ensure the institution is in a constant state of readiness for emergency situations inherent to a correctional environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured appropriate restraints were applied in accordance with governing policies and regulations; and/or I have assisted in the cleaning and performing minor repairs to institution firearms; and/or I have inventoried emergency equipment to assist in determining items required to be purchased. I have implemented a rotating maintenance schedule for institution firearms; and/or I have maintained adequate inventory levels of chemical agents according to regulations; and/or I have recommended the purchase of state-of-the-art disturbance control or emergency equipment. I have trained Disturbance Control Squad in the proper maintenance and accountability of equipment; and/or I have recommended equipment for issuance to Disturbance Control Team members; and/or I have ensured firearms were properly cleaned and stored. None of the above. 5 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;have direct and frequent contact with institutional staff, employees of the regional and Central Office, personnel of local, state and federal agencies, A&amp;E firms, lock manufacturers and weapons/munitions companies. Effective communication skills are required in order to provide technical assistance and obtain information to stay abreast of new equipment and/or techniques used relative to the lockshop, armory and institution security. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an established training class during Annual Refresher Training or Institution Familiarization Training; and/or I have assisted in issuing escape kits; and/or I have communicated with a weapons vendor to obtain information on ammunition, types of weapons or less than lethal munitions; and/or I have contacted equipment vendors to rent and/or purchase needed equipment. I have answered general questions from staff regarding key control; and/or I have provided verbal instructions to an alternate locksmith detailed to the position; and/or I have clarified routine technical information. I have issued emergency equipment during an institution emergency exercise; and/or I have communicated with the facilities department on job designs; and/or I have facilitated a training course on a new Disturbance Control Team equipment use; and/or I have presented recommendations to supervisor as a result of inspection findings. None of the above. 6 Locksmith Supervisos&nbsp;are considered the technical expert in the areas of locksmith, security and armory procedures in a federal correctional institution. They must possess comprehensive knowledge of the theories, principles, practices and techniques related to locking devices, keys, emergency equipment, firearms, chemical agents and ammunition. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have pinned a lock according to instructions; and/or I have assisted in maintaining inventory records of supplies; and/or under direct supervision, I have cut basic keys for use by others (i.e., house keys, padlock keys, car keys, etc.); and/or I have used various weapons. I have determined the appropriate approach to repair a locking device/mechanisms; and/or I have performed troubleshooting of locking devices to ensure security is maintained; and/or I have utilized an automated procedure to document safe combinations, request for changes to combinations, locations of safe, etc.; and/or I have reviewed blue prints and determined locking system requirements for a specific location of a correctional facility. I have issued keys in accordance with policies and procedures; and/or I have followed guidelines and policy in adding and/or removing a key from a key ring; and/or I have assisted in determining door requirements by reviewing blueprints and plans; and/or I have utilized a variety of weapons used in a correctional environment. None of the above. 7 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess the ability to input, manipulate and retrieve various information from the BOP's security officer program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have re-booted computer during malfunctions; and/or I have entered routine data into system; and/or I have printed out forms (i.e., key counts and inventory sheets). I have manipulated the system to determine expiration dates of gases; and/or I have performed gas calculations to determine appropriate amount of gas needed to various situations; and/or I have modified listing by key ring hook number and/or alphabetical reports to correct/remove double entry items; and/or I have added, deleted or modified key ring information in computer. I have marked date received and entered ammunition and chemical agents into an automated system; and/or I have produced recurring reports; and/or I have retrieved requested information from program. None of the above. 8 Locksmith Supervisors in the Federal Bureau of Prisons&nbsp;are responsible for implementing and maintaining a comprehensive lock shop and armory program within a correctional facility. They must possess the ability to oversee all areas of the program to ensure all facets of security and emergency equipment used is optimized. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have checked stored weapons periodically to ensure readiness status; and/or I have performed preventative maintenance on locks; and/or I have assisted in preparing a security proposal. I have reviewed physical security requirements and identified possible security improvements; and/or I have provided recommendations for corrective actions to deficiencies related to security; and/or I have submitted a recommendation to enhance security measures for further consideration. I have served as an Alternate Security Officer; and/or I have assisted in key control as a Control Center Officer; and/or I have reported malfunctioning keys, locks or equipment to appropriate person for action. I have provided lighting alternatives during an emergency situation using back-up energy (flashlights, generators); and/or I have researched publications and trade journals to remain current on security initiatives; and/or I have ensured preventative maintenance is adhered to for institution weapons. None of the above. 9 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess the ability to supervise subordinate employees and delegate authority in order to effectively direct a security program within a correctional facility. They are also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinates to maximize their potential for success and career development. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a group project involving co-workers; and/or I have monitored tasks performed by newly hired employees; and/or I have discussed work issues with co-workers; and/or I have notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have been sought out by peers for advice and guidance on educational or promotion possibilities. I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have performed official mentor duties for newly hired employees; and/or I have counseled subordinates on work issues; and/or I have assisted other staff in completing training needs assessments; and/or I have identified and notified other staff of training or career enhancement opportunities. I have assisted in developing and presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers; and/or I oversaw the maintenance and repair of emergency equipment; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding work procedures. None of the above. 10 Locksmith Supervisors&nbsp;must possess knowledge of regulations, policies and procedures related to lockshop and armory operations. They must be able to interpret and locally apply policies to effectively administer a Lock and Security program in a Bureau of Prisons Correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented corrective action for routine security issues; and/or I have reviewed post orders to ensure security is maintained; and/or I have assisted in performing perpetual audits; and/or I have facilitated training using established lesson plans. I have applied a variety of established lockshop and/or armory policies, procedures and guidelines in completing work assignments; and/or I have participated in a Operational Review of the lockshop/armory areas; and/or I have provided recommendations to update local policy. I have performed corrective action for routine security issues; and/or I have ensured security procedures are followed; and/or I have assisted in performing an audit; and/or I have assisted in facilitating training. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).