Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Secretary receives all visitors and telephone calls.&nbsp; He/she answers telephones and gives information to callers, takes messages, or transfers calls to appropriate individual. He/she also greets visitors or callers and handles their inquiries or directs them to the appropriate staff member. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have greeted visitors or callers and handled their inquiries or directed them to the appropriate individuals according to their needs; and/or I have answered routine administrative questions from callers; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers; and/or I have assisted in resolving minor complaints that impacted the work area; and/or I have answered telephone and provided information to callers, took messages, or transferred calls to appropriate individuals; and/or I have contributed information during informal meetings, gatherings, or discussions. I have scheduled and confirmed appointments for supervisors, customers or clients; and/or I have maintained appointment schedule for supervisor and confirmed final commitments; and/or I have explained regulations, policies or procedures to others; and/or I have researched issues and/or provided responses to upper management on both administrative and technical issues; and/or I have researched and gathered information on a technical topic and advised others in a group setting or meeting; and/or I have served as a liaison between management and other staff; and/or I have provided briefings during department staff meetings. I have screened calls for staff; and/or I have assisted staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on non-technical issues; and/or I have advised supervisor regarding issues affecting work; and/or I have explained general regulations or procedures to the public or employees; and/or I have trained co-workers on routine office procedures; and/or I have provided input on issues affecting the office. None of the above. 3 The Secretary composes non-technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects. &nbsp;He/she responds to routine requests for information, such as the status of reports, suspense dates for matters requiring compliance, and similar information readily available from files.&nbsp; He/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammar and correctness of format; and/or I have developed and prepared handouts and informational material to be used at a conference; and/or I have prepared correspondence/email in response to inquiries which explained the agency’s rules, regulations, procedures or views on a topic; and/or I have ensured all correspondence was completed and adhered to by guidelines set forth by agency directives; and/or I have prepared various correspondence for management review and signature; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff or department head meeting; and/or I have written a memorandum for informational purposes. I have prepared executive correspondence for higher level review; and/or I have established the format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared an agenda/program for a conference as discussed in event planning meetings; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared for the supervisor and other staff; and/or I have advised and made suggestions concerning proper format and content for correspondence. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by high level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes for staff meetings; and/or I have prepared agendas for meetings using an existing template format and summarized background information for a supervisor; and/or I have checked reports for conformance to format and procedural requirements; and/or I have provided an email response to a request from a staff member; and/or I have prepared work status reports for supervisor. None of the above. 4 The Secretary coordinates the workflow of the office by ensuring that daily activities are performed in a timely manner. He/she also devises new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported maintenance or equipment problems to appropriate personnel and scheduled for repair; and/or I have ordered materials, supplies or equipment; and/or I have made photocopies of correspondence, documents or other printed materials; and/or I have sorted and distributed incoming email and correspondence; and/or I have prepared invoices, reports, memos, letters, financial statements and other documents utilizing appropriate word processing software; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff or supervisor in the completion of projects; and/or I have maintained information files; and/or I have prioritized daily tasks under supervision; and/or I have consulted with the supervisor on guidance for the completion of tasks. I have prepared monitored and kept the supervisor abreast on the cost center budget by ensuring any budget concerns or issues were addressed for planning future purchases; and/or I have coordinated a conference to include tasks, such as researching various venues for selection, making travel and hotel arrangements for participants; and/or I have coordinated training for participants and prepared conference materials and information; and/or I have coordinated work with other departments for special projects; and/or I have established a new filing system or other data collection system; and/or I have evaluated software/hardware and made a recommendation for selection; and/or I have screened mail prior to distribution for suspense dates; and/or I have assisted the supervisor in planning for future resources (i.e. office supplies, staffing, and work assignment changes). I have assisted co-workers with projects assigned by management in order to meet specific deadlines; and/or I have assisted co-workers in the procedural aspects of expediting work; and/or I have made travel and/or accommodation arrangements for others; and/or I have referred unresolved customer/employee grievances to designated departments for further investigation; and/or I have developed a data base that tracked various documents and tasks by ensuring that co-workers met all time lines and deadlines; and/or I have established suspense dates for incoming work; and/or I have independently resolved a scheduling conflict; and/or I have made necessary arrangements for conferences based on information provided by the supervisor; and/or I have served as an advisor/mentor to other secretaries on procedural matters. None of the above. 5 The Secretary maintains the computerized tracking system and monitors databases to ensure timely completion of work. He/she uses word processing and computer programs in the performance of a variety of administrative duties. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered, retrieved and generated reports from various data systems; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have updated and maintained an internal web page; and/or I have utilized a presentation software to create materials for a training course. I have researched information from various sources to complete non-standardized forms; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted documents and/or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have scanned correspondence to agency offices or officials. I have retrieved information from an established database; and/or I have prepared templates/documents and/or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have created an automated routing process for general correspondence. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).