Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce** Supervised a diverse workforce in the following competencies: 1) planned/adjusted work by identifying requirements, staff, time and resources; 2) solved problems by anticipating/diagnosing/analyzing facts to reach a conclusion; 3) enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, monitoring productivity and holding staff accountable; 4) ensured quality control by monitoring the integrity/consistency of work performed; 5) exhibited fair treatment by being aware of, responding to, and considering the needs/capabilities of staff and handling issues with tact; 6) demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity/consideration for others ideas; 7) implemented improvement of current business processes and work quality through innovation/continuous development; 8) motivated/provided direction with constructive feedback and coaching; and 9) created a work environment that fosters creativity and integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing EIGHT (8) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of cataloging policy and practices relating to cataloging unpublished and/or published moving image collections and materials.** Applied knowledge of cataloging policies and practices relating to cataloging unpublished and/or published moving image collections and materials. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge of cataloging policy and practices relating to cataloging unpublished and/or published moving image collections and materials. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of cataloging policy and practices relating to cataloging unpublished and/or published moving image collections and materials. Demonstrated basic or a general knowledge of cataloging policy and practices relating to cataloging unpublished and/or published moving image collections and materials. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to manage projects.** Managed information and knowledge management projects to achieve desired outcomes, and in doing so, performed the following tasks: (1) defined the project scope, required resources, and estimated timelines; (2) developed a project plan that included reasonable, achievable, and measurable project tasks; (3) established and maintained schedules; (4) controlled, assessed, and/or completed project deliverables; (5) adjusted priorities to address changing requirements or circumstances; (6) resolved conflicts and differences in stakeholder, team, and management expectations; and (7) reviewed accomplishments and documented lessons learned. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated in-depth knowledge and application of project management. Demonstrated knowledge and application of project management. Applied knowledge of project management. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced written products related to the work area of the position and the supervisory or lead responsibilities performed. Answer to this question is required Produced well-researched, thorough, and logical written material requiring a mastery of the principles, concepts, and systems involved in the administration of library programs. Produced logical written material requiring a mastery of the principles, concepts, and systems involved in administration of library programs. Produced logical written material requiring knowledge of the principles, concepts, and systems involved in administration of library programs. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to provide consultation and liaison services. Established and maintained cooperative work relationships to provide and exchange information and professional knowledge. This included developing and maintaining effective working relationships and information networks with various stakeholders internal and external to the organization on topics related to the subject area of the position. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge and provided consultation and liaison services. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge and provided consultation and liaison services. Demonstrated basic or a general knowledge of consultation and liaison services. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).