Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to this position. OR A combination of education and experience--courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in A above. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Quality Ranking Factor: Completion of a Master&rsquo;s degree from an accredited program in the field of Education or Adult Education is preferred. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. NOTE: If you answered yes, you MUST electronically upload college transcripts for verification at the time you apply. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under the special hiring authority for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Education Administrator&rsquo;s contacts include officials of other agencies, individuals from national organizations, congressional officials, state and local correctional education administrators, agency Executive Staff, Regional and Central Office administrators, department heads, institution and Central Office Staff, and representatives of state and local governments. Contacts are necessary to gather information and to establish rapport, and are needed for implementation, coordination and management of special projects, policy development, resolution of problems, and to present oral briefings to top agency officials.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a workgroup which included members of the Executive Staff in other agencies; and/or I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have conducted training for staff for professional organizations; and/or I have given informal presentations to the Executive Staff/top management of an agency/organization; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding education/recreation issues. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national workgroup; and/or I have represented agency at a community hearing regarding a proposal to build a correctional institution in the area; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have served in leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEO’s), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process as a mediator. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific disciplines; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have provided formal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 7 The Education Administrator prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, and briefings for national level groups. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which includes Department of Justice officials, Department of Education officials or other federal agency executives, executives/members of national professional organizations, state and local education administrators, line staff and the general public.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared general directions for subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates and provided technical guidance; and/or I have prepared justification for staff awards. I have documented findings as a participant of an external audit; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared Education Branch status briefing for Executive Staff; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations memorandums. I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have written strategic plans; and/or I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to an external audit concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared position paper justifying decision made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural education guide explaining laws and regulations, in laymen terms. None of the above. 8 The Education Administrator is responsible for policy development and implementation in the area of education, recreation and vocational training in detention/correctional facilities for the Bureau of Prisons. Work may involve isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies. Conclusions are supplemented with credible information from a variety of sources. He/she will discuss the conclusions with top level staff and recommend solutions to the critical problems encountered.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed audits and ensured corrective action(s) were initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency data and devised changes which significantly improved program; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have recommended method to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices. I have determined workforce characteristics by reviewing the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed the Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations of similar correctional facilities; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. None of the above. 9 The Education Administrator is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned divisional programs, the coordination of division mission and other related program activities and decision making which impacts the overall operations. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have developed and taught classes to staff related to strategic management; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an organization. I have met with subordinates, within agency time requirements, to discuss performance; and/or I have maintained access for dialogue with subordinates on subjects within a correctional education-related frame of reference; and/or I have noted subordinates who volunteered for a committee/assignment and documented accomplishments. I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate’s job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. None of the above. 10 The Education Administrator must have a thorough knowledge of correctional institutional management and administration in order to provide leadership, long-range planning and development, policy formulation, and coordination to ensure a safe, secure institutional environment for inmates and staff.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented a training topic for Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I or New Employee Orientation; and/or I have participated in a department audit; and/or I have served as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance department operations. I have participated in a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on procedural changes; and/or I have participated on committee in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institution; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. None of the above. 11 The Education Administrator is responsible for the development of system wide education programs and leadership in the design and operation of inmate recreation and wellness programs. He/she must stay abreast of pending and completed research, strategic planning, outside education initiatives and related efforts to maintain state of the art knowledge about education and recreation programs. He/she must stay current on the various philosophies, models and methods of correctional recreation and be able to develop policy and motivate field staff to implement sound correction recreation programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised and significantly enhanced established Education/Recreation/wellness programs; and/or I have developed Institution Supplements for the Education/Recreation departments; and/or I have developed a national leisure/wellness course adopted for use. I have taught a variety of leisure/wellness subjects; and/or I have conducted workshops and assisted individuals with developing personal health/nutrition programs; and/or I have developed a variety of recreation techniques, theories, and leisure/wellness subject matters in lesson plans. I have participated in a workgroup to develop and/or modify existing education and/or recreation/wellness policies/techniques and/or theories; and/or I have activated education/recreation program at a new institution; and/or I have led team for staff assistance visit to an institution regarding education/recreation program matters; and/or I have served as Education and Recreation Reviewer-in-Charge for an audit. None of the above. Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A degree that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to this position. OR A combination of education and experience--courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in A above. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Quality Ranking Factor: Completion of a Master&rsquo;s degree from an accredited program in the field of Education or Adult Education is preferred. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. NOTE: If you answered yes, you MUST electronically upload college transcripts for verification at the time you apply. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under the special hiring authority for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Education Administrator&rsquo;s contacts include officials of other agencies, individuals from national organizations, congressional officials, state and local correctional education administrators, agency Executive Staff, Regional and Central Office administrators, department heads, institution and Central Office Staff, and representatives of state and local governments.&nbsp;Contacts are necessary to gather information and to establish rapport, and are needed for implementation, coordination and management of special projects, policy development, resolution of problems, and to present oral briefings to top agency officials.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national workgroup; and/or I have represented agency at a community hearing regarding a proposal to build a correctional institution in the area; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have served in leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEO’s), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process as a mediator. I have presented an oral brief on an education issue for Bureau of Prisons’ Executive Staff; and/or I have persuaded Executive Staff to approve national changes in education and recreation programs; and/or I have served as a negotiator with agency/organization union officials on national level bargaining issues/concerns; and/or I have chaired workgroups tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization wide programs; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting. I have participated on a workgroup which included members of the Executive Staff in other agencies; and/or I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have conducted training for staff for professional organizations; and/or I have given informal presentations to the Executive Staff/top management of an agency/organization; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding education/recreation issues. None of the above. 7 The Education Administrator prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, and briefings for national level groups. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which includes Department of Justice officials, Department of Education officials or other federal agency executives, executives/members of national professional organizations, state and local education administrators, line staff and the general public.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an article which was published in a management, research or professional national publication; and/or I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency which impacted/changed current laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared written briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have documented findings as a participant of an external audit; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared Education Branch status briefing for Executive Staff; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations memorandums. I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have written strategic plans; and/or I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to an external audit concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared position paper justifying decision made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural education guide explaining laws and regulations, in laymen terms. None of the above. 8 The Education Administrator is responsible for policy development and implementation in the area of education, recreation and vocational training in detention/correctional facilities for the Bureau of Prisons. Work may involve isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies. Conclusions are supplemented with credible information from a variety of sources. He/she will discuss the conclusions with top level staff and recommend solutions to the critical problems encountered.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency data and devised changes which significantly improved program; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have recommended method to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed audits and ensured corrective action(s) were initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have collected information/data and made recommendations to increase security at specific institutions and/or contract facilities; and/or I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating agency practices that impacted education/recreation programs; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended appropriate disciplinary procedures; and/or I have developed national strategic plans; and/or I have developed national policy; and/or I have served as troubleshooter in dealing with correctional administrative issues. None of the above. 9 The Education Administrator is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned divisional programs, the coordination of division mission and other related program activities and decision making which impacts the overall operations. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate’s job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. I have provided assignments which would require community exposure, public speaking opportunities, and speech preparation; and/or I have implemented a training program which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action/goals with subordinates to improve performance through formal training, concrete versus abstract milestones, and follow-up review sessions to ensure accountability. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have developed and taught classes to staff related to strategic management; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an organization. None of the above. 10 The Education Administrator must have a thorough knowledge of correctional institutional management and administration in order to provide leadership, long-range planning and development, policy formulation, and coordination to ensure a safe, secure institutional environment for inmates and staff.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed comprehensive reviews of division operations and made recommendations to realign responsibilities; and/or I have chaired a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have developed pilot projects regarding operational or security issues; and/or I have worked as a supervisor/manager at more than one security level institution; and/or I have worked as an Administrator in Central or Regional Office involved with policy development or oversight of institution operations. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institution; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. I have participated in a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on procedural changes; and/or I have participated on committee in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. None of the above. 11 The Education Administrator is responsible for the development of system wide education programs and leadership in the design and operation of inmate recreation and wellness programs. He/she must stay abreast of pending and completed research, strategic planning, outside education initiatives and related efforts to maintain state of the art knowledge about education and recreation programs. He/she must stay current on the various philosophies, models and methods of correctional recreation and be able to develop policy and motivate field staff to implement sound correction recreation programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised and significantly enhanced established Education/Recreation/wellness programs; and/or I have developed Institution Supplements for the Education/Recreation departments; and/or I have developed a national leisure/wellness course adopted for use. I have participated in a workgroup to develop and/or modify existing education and/or recreation/wellness policies/techniques and/or theories; and/or I have activated education/recreation program at a new institution; and/or I have led team for staff assistance visit to an institution regarding education/recreation program matters; and/or I have served as Education and Recreation Reviewer-in-Charge for an audit. I have chaired a workgroup to develop or modify existing education and/or recreation/wellness policies/techniques and/or theories; and/or I have coordinated development of new programs through other education agencies and professional organizations; and/or I have conducted workshop or training on correctional recreation for other federal, state and local officials; and/or I have instrumental in formulating national policy on recreation. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).