Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 Industrial Specialists must be knowledgeable in all phases of the operation including production planning, production flow, inspection procedures, plant layout, equipment used and specifications required. This knowledge is essential in making industrial recommendations relative to production flow patterns, equipment requirements, floor plans and efficient production processes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a complex industrial process for a custom textile product line based on government and commercial standards; and/or I have coordinated textile factory requirements for a large scale contract which avoided delays in final delivery; and/or I have scheduled a complex textile project from inception to completion and ensured deadlines were met. I have worked with plant layouts, machinery used in the fabrication of products and production control; and/or I have followed up on old contract proposals to determine status and made adjustments to meet customer concerns. I have inspected manufactured textile products to ensure compliance with specifications and drawings; and/or I have provided guidance on textile production procedures; and/or I have provided technical information by facilitating a training session to explain new product requirements, equipment, etc. I have reported textile manufacturing problems and discrepancies to supervisor; and/or I have worked as a line supervisor in a factory; and/or I have assisted in the manufacturing of products typical to the manufacturing environment; and/or I have participated in an Operational Review; and/or I have maintained a library of current government standards and specifications. None of the above. 3.2 Industrial Specialists must be able to analyze, interpret and apply a wide range of information in order to prepare correspondence and complex technical reports in a clear and concise manner. Additionally, they are required to prepare correspondence and reports related to completed projects, which are used as reference material in support of manufacturing processes and procedures, prepare responses to inquiries, and convey information to staff, customers and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented quality trend analysis which included a conclusion to improve future production processes; and/or I have prepared negotiation memorandums to address discrepancies in contracts; and/or I have presented quality cost analysis data indicating more cost efficient methods or justified additional expenditures. I have created status of orders for use by immediate supervisor; and/or I have collected information relative to the manufacturing of a specific product line to be used in the establishment of product costs; and/or I have prepared monthly reviews; and/or I have prepared determinations and findings that documented actions taken in contracts; and/or I have responded to inquiries from vendors/customers on sensitive issues. I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have created a report containing charts and cause/effect diagrams; and/or I have assisted others in formulating contract proposals for the purpose of developing the latest material and production costs. I have prepared recurring memorandums; and/or I have prepared basic graphs/charts depicting production flow; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence for higher level approval. None of the above. 3.3 Industrial Specialists must interact and effectively communicate with corporate management, program managers, executive staff, representatives from other government and private sector agencies, peers, subordinates, and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated with clients at an industrial conference; and/or I have served as a technical representative for a manufacturer; and/or I have presented data to upper management which resulted in significant cost saving measures being implemented. I have discussed production related problems with managers; and/or I have presented recommendations for improvements to existing procedures that were subsequently implemented; and/or I have facilitated a meeting with vendors and/or employees for acquiring new equipment or possible future use of existing equipment; and/or I have provided guidance/answers to others about a particular project. I have briefed office staff on the outcome of a project; and/or I have participated in staff meetings; and/or I have organized a company activity; and/or I have attended routine meetings such as the weekly production meeting, etc.; and/or I have discussed routine manufacturing issues with workgroups; and/or I have provided daily safety briefings. I have negotiated price quotes to uncooperative/skeptical individuals requiring inventiveness, tact and diplomacy; and/or I have discussed procurement issues with management officials; and/or I have identified, analyzed and solved an issue involving management, vendors, customers and contractors. None of the above. 3.4 Industrial Specialists must be able to analyze and interpret information regarding a wide variety of manufacturing as well as general production related issues. They must be able to logically and rationally formulate recommendations that enhance the manufacturing environment and provide management with indispensable decision making tools. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided data analysis and recommendations regarding existing products and procedures; and/or I have presented information to local management based on review of information and data provided by various sources; and/or I have presented local staff and supervisors informational reports and data trends; and/or I have prepared manufacturing and production data for inclusion in reports. I have provided background information and analysis that resulted in enhanced product lines; and/or I have presented recommendations and ideas to improve existing processes; and/or I have monitored and analyzed production information; and/or I have conducted analysis of production and manufacturing data which revealed increased manufacturing goals. I have initiated/conducted market research and comparisons which resulted in new projects, product lines or design enhancements; and/or I have analyzed new or existing data and conducted historical trend analysis for all levels of management; and/or I have provided recommendations or proposals to decision makers that positively impacted the organization and resulted in overall cost savings; and/or I have read and analyzed complex technical drawings and specifications. None of the above. 3.5 Industrial Specialists must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs. They must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure production requirements are met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified production processes of an existing product line to meet customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for a segment of a product line; and/or I have successfully met shipping requirements of multiple product lines. I have planned production process of a new product line from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the purchasing of resources (i.e., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions, etc.); and/or I have implemented a complex product line; and/or I have modified production line to meet an emergency requirement (i.e., halted normal production to produce emergency product and met shipping requirements). I have planned production processes to meet normal requirements; and/or I have recommended items for purchase; and/or I have met requirements of a single product line; and/or I have acted in the capacity of Factory Manager. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).