Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Officer interacts with people at all levels both internal and external of the agency/organization regarding a variety of administrative and management issues.&nbsp; He/she acts as liaison with other departments internal to the Federal Bureau of Prisons and is responsible for coordinating efforts required to accomplish assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to phone calls or office visitors; and/or I have explained travel authorizations procedures to office staff; and/or I have exchanged information within branch or division staff with accuracy; and/or I have provided suggestions for office processes and procedures to be used by others. I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures for departmental staff; and/or I have presented a report synopsis from working papers to the Section Chief; and/or I have briefed staff on changes or revisions to office protocols and procedures. I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted in presenting a training session to co-workers; and/or I have assisted in providing routine information. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Officer communicates in writing with people at all levels both internal and external to the agency/organization regarding sensitive and non-sensitive issues.&nbsp; He/she will be responsible for creating reports, correspondence, and charts to document findings of studies and analysis conducted.&nbsp; The Administrative Officer must possess strong written communication skills to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have completed standard correspondence; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. I have developed meeting agendas and participant handouts; and/or I have composed electronic mail to division personnel concerning upcoming events and deadlines; and/or I have composed memorandums regarding policy changes. I have generated letters or memorandums for supervisory review; and/or I have routed travel authorizations; and/or I have keyed time and attendance for the office; and/or I have prepared and updated phone listings and staff schedules; and/or I have maintained office calendars as requested by the supervisor. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Officer must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports, logs, memorandums, or correspondence to be used internal to the agency/organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, or Microsoft Excel); and/or I have utilized software programs to generate electronic mail messages to staff members; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program. I have modified formatting within a document created by others; and/or I have attended a workshop in Microsoft Word and Microsoft PowerPoint; and/or I have assisted with preparing basic documents or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have utilized office equipment in conjunction with a computer such as copiers, scanners, and fax machines. I have created and utilized documents and forms using a variety of word processing programs; and/or I have assisted in creating a presentation using a specific presentation program; and/or I have used a database to track and project completion dates; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from a database or personal computer. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Officer must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities to ensure timely completion of projects and assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in ordering office supplies, furniture, or equipment; and/or I have prepared work requests for the repair of buildings, furniture, and equipment; and/or I have worked as the alternate cost center manager; and/or I have sought pricing from several vendors for products; and/or I have sought back-up staff for phone coverage; and/or I have assisted staff in meeting deadlines (i.e., travel authorizations, time and attendance keying or auditing). I have assisted with analyzing resources to determine needs; and/or I have assisted with maintaining a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of budget reports. I have identified resources which can be realigned to meet new or changing program goals; and/or I have analyzed resources to determine needs; and/or I have maintained a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required timeframes; and/or I have prepared annual budget reports; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Officer interprets and applies various Federal government rules and regulations as they relate to the administration of a division, section, or office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed Time and Attendance records for a small workforce; and/or I have made hotel reservations based on per diem requirements; and/or I have assisted with conducting Time and Attendance leave audits to ensure proper usage. I have closed out travel files prior to filing; and/or I have filed and purged material from subject-matter files according to expiration dates or as requested by the supervisor; and/or I have utilized checklists to ensure all required actions are taken and in compliance with policies and procedures. I have updated Time and Attendance files for the office; and/or I have conducted Time and Attendance leave audits to ensure leave is being used appropriately; and/or I have responded to inquiries about general policies; and/or I have completed purchase requests for office supplies. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Officer interacts with people at all levels both internal and external of the agency/organization regarding a variety of administrative and management issues. He/she acts as liaison with other departments internal to the Federal Bureau of Prisons and is responsible for coordinating efforts required to accomplish assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures for departmental staff; and/or I have presented a report synopsis from working papers to the Section Chief; and/or I have briefed staff on changes or revisions to office protocols and procedures. I have facilitated a presentation during Annual Training; and/or I have advised managers and executive staff on position management or budgetary issues; and/or I have presented briefings to management during department head meetings; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other offices of the organization to obtain information required to complete assignments; and/or I have represented the agency/organization at a recruitment event. I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted in presenting a training session to co-workers; and/or I have assisted in providing routine information at a recruiting function or job fair. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Officer communicates in writing with people at all levels both internal and external to the agency/organization regarding sensitive and non-sensitive issues. He/she will be responsible for creating reports, correspondence, and charts to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. The Administrative Officer must possess strong written communication skills to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have completed standard correspondence; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. I have developed meeting agendas and participant handouts; and/or I have composed electronic mail to division personnel concerning upcoming events and deadlines; and/or I have composed memorandums regarding policy changes. I have responded to inquiries from external agencies/organizations; and/or I have prepared an after-action report based on program review or comparable audit findings; and/or I have prepared a newsletter article outlining a policy or procedure; and/or I have prepared reports for managerial/Executive Staff meetings. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Officer must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports, logs, memorandums, or correspondence to be used internal to the agency/organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system or spreadsheet; and/or I have prepared a presentation which included slides, graphs or charts using multiple software packages; and/or I have entered statistical data into an agency/organization specific database to accurately track information used by management; and/or I have used automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments. I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, or Microsoft Excel); and/or I have utilized software programs to generate electronic mail messages to staff members; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program. I have created and utilized documents and forms using a variety of word processing programs; and/or I have assisted in creating a presentation using a specific presentation program; and/or I have used a database to track and project completion dates; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from a database or personal computer. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Officer must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities to ensure timely completion of projects and assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with analyzing resources to determine needs; and/or I have assisted with maintaining a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of budget reports. I have independently determined the resources needed for a project; and/or I have monitored workloads to prioritize schedules and coordinated assignments; and/or I have tracked expenditures for office or unit budget; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete last minute assignments. I have identified resources which can be realigned to meet new or changing program goals; and/or I have analyzed resources to determine needs; and/or I have maintained a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required timeframes; and/or I have prepared annual budget reports; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Officer interprets and applies various Federal government rules and regulations as they relate to the administration of a division, section, or office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated Time and Attendance files for the office; and/or I have conducted Time and Attendance leave audits to ensure leave is being used appropriately; and/or I have responded to inquiries about general policies; and/or I have completed purchase requests for office supplies. I have keyed Time and Attendance records for a small workforce; and/or I have made hotel reservations based on per diem requirements; and/or I have assisted with conducting Time and Attendance leave audits to ensure proper usage. I have prepared and settled travel vouchers in accordance with applicable regulations; and/or I have maintained Time and Attendance accounting codes and ensured accuracy prior to signature; and/or I have trained supporting staff in Time and Attendance procedures; and/or I have reviewed purchase requests to determine need and accuracy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other 7 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 8 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).