Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [4682] Select the statement that best describes your experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating project activities, including: assigning work; training or instructing employees; reporting problems and offering solutions to your supervisor; meeting deadlines; monitoring work in progress, and making day-to-day adjustments to resolve unexpected conditions. Answer to this question is required I have no experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating project activities, but have participated as an individual contributor in multiple, technical project teams. I have demonstrated experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating some, but not all of the project work activities listed, with guidance from my supervisor or senior employee. I have demonstrated experience planning, scheduling, and coordinating all of the project work activities listed, with some guidance from my supervisor. I have demonstrated experience coordinating work activities as a team leader over a small group (2-3) of employees assigned to a project. I have demonstrated experience coordinating work activities as a team leader over a moderate group (4-6) of employees assigned to a project. I have demonstrated experience coordinating work activities as a team leader over a large group (7 or more) of employees assigned to a project. None of the above 9 [59830] Select the action item(s) that you have accomplished successfully in your career regarding conflict management. Answer to this question is required I have identified root causes for potential conflict and worked to minimize, manage or remove them. I have worked with employee associations or union officials to address employee concerns. I have resolved conflicts among employees and work units using effective conflict management techniques. I have resolved formal complaints/grievances and have minimized the negative impact on the organization. I have kept employees informed about work-related issues. None of the above. 10 [1730] Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse staff, taking into account individual goals, values, and sensitivities. Answer to this question is required Provided broad guidance to people to prioritize work and then accomplish it in a timely, satisfactory manner. Led, supervised, and managed professional and administrative staff in the design and delivery of programs and projects. Led a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels. Led a management evaluation or assistance team to provide assistance on organizational programs. As a senior staff member, served as acting supervisor on occasion, and assisted the supervisor in developing and leading others. Led, directed, and motivated team members to accomplish specific projects. No experience in developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse staff. 11 [1085] Choose the description that best describes your ability to direct and assign work. Answer to this question is required I sometimes interpret instructions for other employees or explain work assignments to new employees. I work well as a member of a team. I have worked on teams were I was accepted as the informal group leader. I take responsibility for getting the work done by taking the initiative to get a group task going. I have worked as a leader or supervisor and have the ability to organize and delegate work assignments successfully, while still being respected by my co-workers. I have the ability to stimulate other employees to work efficiently and productively. I do not like to direct or assign work. I prefer to have someone else lead and/or direct. 12 [2514] Choose the description from the following that best describes your leadership and supervisory experience. Answer to this question is required I have no experience leading or supervising others. I have limited experience leading or supervising, such as, leading a specific work project. I have experience leading or supervising employees that involved giving directions and enforcing policies. 13 [1083] Choose the description that most accurately describes your ability to train others in work processes. Answer to this question is required I have never provided training or instructions to others. I have trained others outside of the work area (e.g. coaching sports, religious instruction, etc.). I have infrequently provided training to employees in work processes related to this position (e.g. work techniques, use of tools, computer and/or manual operating controls, and/or safety practices). I regularly provide training to others in work processes related to this position (e.g. work techniques, use of tools, computer and/or manual operating controls, and/or safety practices). 14 [33748] This position involves staying on task, focusing on program objectives, and setting priorities related to several programs with differing goals, schedules and deliverables. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience in project management. Answer to this question is required I have worked in a position where I had multiple projects and deliverables concurrently. I have led or managed groups responsible for different projects and deliverables concurrently. I have led or managed in an environment with formal project plans, (including milestones, resource planning, work breakdown schedule, activity sequencing,) and documented responsibilities. I have led initiatives with cross-organizational impact through their life-cycle including: identifying goals; choosing strategies; choosing and sequencing specific milestones; monitoring progress; producing a written product; and evaluating impact. I have monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishments. None of the above 15 [1053] Select the option that best describes your experience with ladders. Answer to this question is required I have experience climbing straight, vertical ladders up to 20 feet high, but no experience climbing ladders over 20 feet. I have experience climbing straight, vertical ladders up to 40 feet in length, but no experience climbing ladders over 40 feet. I have experience climbing straight, vertical high ladders over 40 feet in length. I have no work experience on ladders. 16 [990] Select the answer that best represents your knowledge and experience with shipboard, marina, and dock work. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 17 [4477] Choose the description that best describes your ability to read mechanical, technical and manufacturing blueprints. Answer to this question is required I have no experience with reading or interpreting mechanical blueprints. My ability is limited to the extent that assistance is required in reading and interpreting mechanical blueprints I have the ability to read and interpret blueprints including multiview and technical service prints. I have the ability to read and interpret most blueprints and specifications as identified above, but under closer supervision when working on any new prints. I have the ability to read and interpret the most complex blueprints, such as sectional, multiview and wire frame blueprints related to tools, dies, fixtures, prototype models or complete assemblies. 18 [1033] I have successfully used, applied and or followed the following instruction methods and guidelines on the job: Answer to this question is required Instruction manuals Blueprints Sketches Specifications Arithmetic Verbal instructions Written instructions Standard procedures Mathmatical Calculations None of the above 19 [1106] Do you have experience in general cleaning such as water blasting, scaling, sand blasting, or painting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 [911] Select the equipment on which you have performed maintenance and repair work. Answer to this question is required Hatch Covers Malfunctioning Valves Diesel Engines Blowers Anchor Windlasses Boilers Boat Davits Condensers Steering Mac Evaporators Hydraulic Systems Centrifugal Pumps Reciprocating Pumps Turbines Compressors Steering Engines Piping Systems Tank Arrangements Cargo Handling Winches None of the above 21 [52108]Select the response that best describes your job experience using and maintaining tools and equipment. Make sure to clearly describe this experience in your resume. Answer to this question is required I have not been trained in or performed this work. I have other related experience, education, or training. Under the direction of a higher level worker or supervisor, I have learned and applied standard methods and techniques for operating and cleaning common hand and yard tools used in landscaping, maintenance, or similar jobs. 22 [4487] While wearing personal protective equipment, I am able to: Answer to this question is required Work from a manbasket Work in confined spaces Work from a height of 90 feet Work from narrow ledges or scaffolding Work around equipment in inclement weather Work from a raft, the deck of a barge or a workboat Work in uncomfortable positions (e.g. lying down, bending over, crouching) Work in enclosed or restricted areas, sometimes with limited lighting and access Swim in deep, cold water LIft weights up to 40 pounds Lift weights over 40 and up to 100 pounds Lift weights over 100 pounds Signal equipment operators by hand and radio None of the Above 23 [5113] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions (e.g., bad weather, over extreme heights, near water). Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have applied my knowledge of general safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 24 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 25 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 28 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 29 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 29.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 29.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 29.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).