Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a bachelor's from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that included or was supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. OR I have a combination of education and experience--Applicants who have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree, but who do not meet the specific course requirements shown above meet minimum qualification requirements if they have completed at least one full academic year of professional teaching experience at the elementary or secondary school level as appropriate to the position to be filled. Professional teaching experience is defined as full and primary responsibility for the instruction of assigned students under general supervision in a recognized or accredited school or other accredited educational institution. This includes responsibility for preparation and presentation of lessons and the evaluation of students' progress throughout the learning period, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria. OR I have a teacher certification or licensure in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. NOTE: ALL applicants using Option A or B to qualify MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants using Option C to qualify, MUST submit proof of Teacher certification or licensure. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) or LEO (GL)applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Supervisor of Education must be able to converse effectively and speak clearly and concisely with all types of people internal and external to the Agency. They must interact with Executive Staff, Central Office and regional administrators, teachers, complex inmate/student populations, contractors, volunteers, institution staff, and other outside individuals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with class instruction; and/or I have given a presentation to inmates/students; and/or I have individually provided oral guidance to inmates/students. I have briefed management and/or unit team and others on information pertaining to inmate/student education; and/or I have spoken with representatives from outside organizations; and/or I have communicated with outside organization/individuals in an effort to enhance classroom instruction; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution. I have presented information to staff during Annual Training; and/or I have provided Admission and Orientation (A&O) to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have participated in Community Relations Board (CRB) Meeting. None of the above 6 The Supervisor of Education must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. They must prepare correspondence related to educational needs and programs, audits, policy statements, as well as prepare information memoranda for the inmate/student population.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared written responses as a participant in an Operational Review or comparable internal audit in the private sector; and/or I have written a memorandum for all department heads explaining newly established procedures; and/or I have edited institution/Agency newsletter. I have participated in and contributed to operational review/audit reports; and/or I have reviewed, clarified, and/or updated local policies; and/or I have developed and issued guidance related to new procedures or hours of operation for the department or organization; and/or I have contributed to an article for a newsletter. I have drafted new procedures and/or program summary for supervisory review; and/or I have drafted security procedures to safeguard diagnostic assessment materials and test center integrity; and/or I have drafted written correspondence in response to a school improvement plan. None of the above 7 The Supervisor of Education supervises a number of staff including managing and directing the work of the entire organizational unit. They participate in a number of meetings and committees and evaluate staff under their supervision.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated an inmate/student work group, committee, or community service project; and/or I have coordinated and/or supervised a resource center; and/or I have served as a program coordinator for education or recreation programs. I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have held subordinates accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have reviewed completed projects/tasks of subordinates. I have provided subordinate feedback on a quarterly basis; and/or I have supervised and organized work assignments for line staff; and/or I have developed and scheduled required training for staff for career advancement, knowledge, and skill enhancement/improvement. None of the above 8 The Supervisor of Education must continuously analyze information regarding education programs and/or services and formulate new or adjust existing policies, plans or programs. Participation must involve course and curriculum development, redesign, and/or innovative development of instructional methodology.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized monitoring systems; and/or I have maintained cost center budget; and/or I have provided information used in annual education report. I have generated computer programs database roster to analyze institution education statistics; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations with similar facility; and/or I have reviewed curriculums annually to ensure compliance with standard. I have assisted in generating computer program rosters; and/or I have assisted with analyzing previous year’s budget to make recommendations for new year; and/or I have assisted in responding to specific inquiries after reviewing documentation. None of the above 9 The Supervisor of Education is responsible for determining program needs for the total student (inmate) population and is responsible for monitoring the range of programs in both the education and recreation areas. He/she is ultimately responsible for test scores and other sensitive parts of the educational process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made recommendations for special programs and/or for special student groups (i.e., geriatric students); and/or I have requested and/or secured resources for special activities such as films, books, arts and crafts programs; and/or I have coordinated and developed training for educational areas, such as English as a Second Language (ESL), leisure or law library, and/or vocational training. I have instructed others in teaching skills; and/or I have assisted with the development of a curriculum; and/or I have assisted in preparation for a large-scale education conference/staff training/meeting; and/or I have assisted in planning, establishing and/or updating an educational/recreational program. I have participated in the preparation for special events and activities; and/or I have contacted speakers for graduations or recognition ceremonies; and/or I have gathered program data to demonstrate need or interest in programs; and/or I have updated local inmate/student tutor training program. None of the above 10 The Supervisor of Education is responsible for the overall development and implementation of effective programs which will meet the educational needs of a complex student population found within a correctional environment or similar educational system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established education program objectives and curriculum for persons involved in literacy/ High School Equivalency Diploma or General Education Diploma (GED), English as a Second Language (ESL), vocational, occupational, apprenticeship, or recreation programs; and/or I have assisted in surveying the population to improve course offerings; and/or I have assisted in developing new instructional techniques to improve and advance learning outcome or test performance of inmates/students. I have created schedules for literacy, English as a Second Language (ESL), parenting, vocational, occupational, apprenticeship and/or recreation programs and utilized input from students to improve instruction or programs; and/or I have planned and or implemented a special learning event (i.e., reading event, July 4th celebration); and/or I have planned and implemented an educational field trip/experiential learning program for a correctional institution or in a similar learning environment. I have developed a schedule for literacy, English as a Second Language (ESL), vocational, occupational, or apprenticeship training programs, job skill readiness assessment, post-secondary education, and/or parenting a correctional institution, military installation or similar learning institution; and/or I have assisted in planning, developing and/or updating programs with the supervisor; and/or I have established a newly developed program for education and/or recreation. None of the above Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).