Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Tool Room Officers are tasked with the responsibility of assisting the Security Officer as needed. They must be familiar with correctional security procedures and possess a knowledge of security guidelines in order to effectively perform duties of a security nature and to train staff on security procedures and concerns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed recurring security checks as required by policy; and/or I have read procedures associated with issuing tools to staff and inmates; and/or I have maintained general security of assigned work area. I have maintained security when supervising inmates using tools; and/or I have conducted searches or persons or property for contraband; and/or I have enforced institution security using agency policies and regulations; and/or I have responded to a variety of institutional emergencies. I have identified and classified A, B, or AA tools according to policy; and/or I have deterred a security breach by taking appropriate action to an inmate's attempt to remove tools for a secured area; and/or I have recognized a breach in security while conducting fence checks and reported it appropriately for immediate correction; and/or I have utilized the security officer's computer program to enter and retrieve data for accurate key control. None of the above. 3 Tool Room Officers use a variety of guidelines, regulations and procedures in order to ensure effectiveness of the institutional tool room program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the correctional services manual to ensure national policies were being adhered to; and/or I have prepared reports in correct format; and/or I have referred to post orders to determine appropriate action to situations encountered; and/or I have followed Safety Data Sheets to handle and store hazardous materials. I have participated in an operational review of tool room operations; and/or I have assisted with the preparation of institutional supplements based on changes to national directives; and/or I have participated in an operational review or comparable internal audit; and/or I have conducted a perpetual audit and implemented corrective actions for deficiencies noted. I have assisted or volunteered to participate in an operational review or audit; and/or I have determined appropriate information to release as Locator Center Officer, assisted with census count. None of the above. 4 Tool Room Officers must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities for all associated functions. They may be required to perform duties of correctional posts, or act as the Assistant Security Officer while being simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining tool room operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have initiated the timely processing of audits and inventories; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time-frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have exceeded internal deadlines. I have effectively managed a workload involving multiple supervisors; and/or I have used various tracking methods to complete assignments; and/or I have developed checklists to ensure tasks were completed; and/or I have made independent decisions to complete projects. I have met internal deadlines; and/or I have planned work in a manner that ensures tasks are completed in a timely, organized fashion; and/or I have performed tasks assigned with little supervision. None of the above. 5 Tool Room Officers must posses the ability to effectively communicate with inmates, institutional staff, vendors, and others in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have kept my supervisor abreast of work load or issues encountered; and/or I have contributed information during an informal or formal meeting; and/or I have responded to general questions received from staff. I have .presented tool room operational issues and recommended solutions to supervisor; and/or I have presented information to a class of new employees on tool accountability during Institution Familiarization training; and/or I have explained security requirements relative to tool possession/use to detail foreman; and/or I have contacted vendors to coordinate orders or delivery of tools or supplies. I have explained visiting/mail/possessions policy to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have presented information during roll call or institutional recall regarding an informal meeting or event; and/or I have directed inmates/employees in completing daily tasks. None of the above. 6 Tool Room Officers must possess comprehensive knowledge of a variety of tools and equipment, including proper use and safety requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used a variety of tools to complete assignments without supervision (i.e., end saws, grinders, micrometers); and/or I have utilized appropriate tools to complete specific tasks (i.e., cutting doors, cement block, or metal gage studs); and/or I have referred to manufacturer’s instructions to ensure tools were used properly and safely. I have used tools to accomplish common tasks (i.e., hammers, tape measures and screwdrivers); and/or I have used power tools under close supervision; and/or I have ensured basic hand tools were serviceable. I have identified and classified a variety of tools as a rotational tool room officer; and/or I have identified and distributed correct tools for specific job accomplishment; and/or I have conducted surveys on broken tools and disposed according tool policy those found unusable; and/or I have instructed a group of inmates on proper tool usage; and/or I have cataloged and shadowed appropriate to class and use; and/or I have repaired tools on tool inventories. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).