Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Do you currently have the following certifications: (1) Confined Space Certification; (2) Lead-Based Paint Removal Certification; AND (3) Asbestos Abatement Certification? (Please Note: Failure to have current certifications in ALL of the areas will automatically disqualify you for the position.) Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the tools you have used independently. Answer to this question is required Staple gun Hammer drills Needle gun Chipping gun None of the above 4 From the responses below select the types of hand tools you have experienced in using in sheet metal mechanic work: Answer to this question is required Measuring Tapes Rulers Hack saws Hammer Hammer drills Snips (shears) None of the above 5 Which methods have you implemented related to lead abatement? Answer to this question is required Replaced parts or equipment with lead-based paint Enclosed lead-based paint with a solid barrier Encapsulated lead-based paint by coating the surface Removed lead-based paint None of the above 6 Select the response that best describes you highest level of experience setting up scaffolding. Answer to this question is required I have directed others on the proper way to set up scaffolding and made sure the scaffolding is secure. I have set up portions of scaffolding. I have assisted a senior worker to set up scaffolding. None of the above. 7 This position involves very heavy physical effort in frequently lifting and moving objects weighing over 50 pounds. Are you able to lift over 50 pounds on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which activities related to asbestos removal have you performed? Answer to this question is required Built containment structures. Removed asbestos using wet methods. Bagged and sealed removed insulation materials. Marked asbestos bags with the removal date, location, and contents. Cleaned abatement/containment area during and after asbestos removal, as well as surrounding areas including but not limited to external containment, restricted areas, and adjacent surfaces. Inspected abatement/containment area to ensure removal was complete. Installed and used a glove bag system. None of the above 9 Select the hazardous materials you have moved and/or stored following safety procedures. Answer to this question is required Paint/varnishes Paint/varnish remover or thinner Ammunition Explosives Cleaning chemicals (e.g., bleach) Asbestos Leaded material Silica None of the above 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 10.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.