Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. Applicants must also possess: Management ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, recognize and adapt to changing priorities; and Knowledge of the interrelationships and interdependencies among various medical and administrative services and programs. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Health System Administrator must possess the ability to effectively manage both the administrative and clinical care programs of a Health Service Department. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to: services provided, managing a complex medical and supply budget, and ensuring all programs are optimized to support each other. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented medical information during a job fair; and/or I have provided training to inmates on medical safety; and/or I have provided advice/guidance to other staff during a medical related training session. I have reviewed patient’s files and made recommendations for treatment; and/or I have been sought out for guidance by other staff members regarding medical programs or procedures; and/or I have tracked medical supply expenditures. I have strategically planned and scheduled health care program meetings; and/or I have evaluated health care programs and provided recommendations for improvements to health care delivery to include budgetary responsibilities, purchasing and contracting; and/or I have managed a small operating budget within a health care program. None of the above. 4 The Health System Administrator must possess thorough knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory authorities (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), federal, state, local), to ensure the Health Service Department is in compliance with regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in updating documentation for an existing medical program; and/or I have reviewed medical policies and provided recommendations for improvement; and/or I have implemented procedures involved in obtaining accreditation (Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare (JCAHO), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), etc.). I have responded to a medical related Inmate Request to Staff Member (Cop-Out); and/or I have followed proper procedures in the preparation of an Incident Report or other medical related form; and/or I have submitted a suggestion for higher level approval on hours of operation or improved services; and/or I have referred to standard operating procedures or policies in completing tasks. I have referenced program statements or policy regarding dispensing medication or providing medical services; and/or I have been involved in the accreditation process with participation in planning meetings (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA); and/or I have provided recommendations to streamline processes or procedures. None of the above. 5 The Health System Administrator must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates, and outside resources in order to ensure the orderly operation of the department. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, executive staff of the institution, along with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the medical needs of an inmate/patient with other involved parties; and/or I have obtained information and relayed findings to supervisor; and/or I have coordinated requirements for a medical escort trip with departmental staff; and/or I have provided pertinent information during internal meetings. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have provided patient education (i.e., Admission and Orientation (A&O), basic medical information); and/or I have contacted other facilities/physicians to obtain required medical information. I have provided medical updates during departmental meetings; and/or I have obtained information from vendors and relayed findings to supervisor on new medical equipment available for purchase; and/or I have coordinated medical escort trip details with other departments. None of the above. 6 The Health System Administrator is responsible for recognizing the potential of subordinate staff and assisting subordinates in attaining their professional goals. Additionally, he/she is responsible for providing supervision, direction, and guidance to their subordinate staff in a firm, fair, and objective manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have assisted in the completion of a departmental project; and/or I have assisted in planning of intra-departmental activities within an institution. I have mentored newly hired staff; and/or I have provided instructions to a patient regarding aftercare; and/or I have gained the cooperation of an inmate/patient/client refusing to take prescribed medications. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have ensured work of others is completed within assigned deadlines; and/or I have reviewed work of others for accuracy prior to final draft submission. None of the above. 7 The Health System Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she responsible for preparing correspondence related to medical needs and programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared flyers for departmental staff advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared descriptive medical log entries; and/or I have prepared a response regarding a congressional inquiry. I have prepared an Incident Report; and/or I have responded to Inmate Request to a Staff Member (BP-9); and/or I have participated in an operational review or audit of a health care facility; and/or I have prepared justification to correct a noted error in a written procedure; and/or I have prepared recurring memorandums. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. Applicants must also possess: Management ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, recognize and adapt to changing priorities; and Knowledge of the interrelationships and interdependencies among various medical and administrative services and programs. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Health System Administrator must possess the ability to effectively manage both the administrative and clinical care programs of a Health Service Department. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to: services provided, managing a complex medical and supply budget, and ensuring all programs are optimized to support each other. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed patient’s files and made recommendations for treatment; and/or I have been sought out for guidance by other staff members regarding medical programs or procedures; and/or I have tracked medical supply expenditures. I have assisted in the coordination and implementation of administrative programs; and/or I have participated on internal committees which resulted in improved health care services being provided if responsibilities included management of both administration and clinical care programs, including budgetary responsibilities; and/or I have coordinated with vendors regarding the delivery of services or resolution of price discrepancies; and/or I have assisted others in determining funding requirements for a ward of a health care facility. I have strategically planned and scheduled health care program meetings; and/or I have evaluated health care programs and provided recommendations for improvements to health care delivery to include budgetary responsibilities, purchasing and contracting; and/or I have managed a small operating budget within a health care program. None of the above. 4 The Health System Administrator must possess thorough knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory authorities (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), federal, state, local), to ensure the Health Service Department is in compliance with regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in updating documentation for an existing medical program; and/or I have reviewed medical policies and provided recommendations for improvement; and/or I have implemented procedures involved in obtaining accreditation (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), etc.). I have referenced program statements or policy regarding dispensing medications or providing medical services; and/or I have been involved in the accreditation process with participation in planning meetings (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), etc.); and/or I have provided recommendations to streamline processes or procedures. I have established and enforced updated regulations and policies in a medical facility; and/or I have assisted in obtaining a successful accreditation (Joint Commission (JC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), American Correctional Association (ACA), etc.); and/or I have implemented an internal review, which ensured compliance with governing standards and regulations. None of the above. 5 The Health System Administrator must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates, and outside resources in order to ensure the orderly operation of the department. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, executive staff of the institution, along with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given a department update during a department head meeting; and/or I have facilitated planning and delivery of a health conference; and/or I have provided training to staff during Annual Training regarding health issues; and/or I have discussed the resolution of issues involving departmental staff within the institution or private facility. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have provided patient education (i.e., Admission and Orientation (A&O), basic medical information); and/or I have contacted other facilities/physicians to obtain required medical information. I have provided medical updates during departmental meetings; and/or I have obtained information from vendors and relayed findings to supervisor on new medical equipment available for purchase; and/or I have coordinated medical escort trip details with other departments. None of the above. 6 The Health System Administrators is responsible for recognizing the potential of subordinate staff and assisting subordinates in attaining their professional goals. Additionally, he/she is responsible for providing supervision, direction, and guidance to their subordinate staff in a firm, fair, and objective manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have assisted in the completion of a departmental project; and/or I have assisted in planning of intra-departmental activities within institution. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have ensured work of others is completed within assigned deadlines; and/or I have reviewed work of others for accuracy prior to final draft submission. I have prioritized work flow among available staff, making adjustments when necessary; and/or I have completed performance appraisals; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have counseled an employee on performance, provided guidance and monitored for improvement; and/or I have coordinated with vendors to provide a recurring training session on various health issues for employees (i.e., blood drive, cholesterol testing, etc.). None of the above. 7 The Health System Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for preparing correspondence related to medical needs and programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed/updated Institution Supplements; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from executive staff within the Bureau of Prisons or comparable management level in the private sector; and/or I have prepared a response from an Operational Review or comparable internal audit in the private sector. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared a flyer for departmental staff, advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared descriptive medical log entries; and/or I have prepared a response regarding a congressional inquiry. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).