Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico) or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Sex Offender Program must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret general psychological tests and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted objective personality measures or intelligence testing and written reports analyzing the test findings; and/or I have performed neuropsychological evaluations and prepared reports conveying conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have administered objective personality measures and summarized the results of these tests; and/or I have conducted intelligence tests on school children with academic problems and documented the results of the testing; and/or I have administered psychological testing for a University-based research project. I have conducted psychological assessments such as intelligence tests, neurological tests, diagnostic instruments or suicide risk assessments; and/or I have conducted psychological tests as evaluation components of a larger psychological assessment; and/or I have administered psychological assessments in conjunction with a research project. None of the above. 6 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist must be knowledgeable about empirically based treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, psychosis, substance use disorders, suicidality and self-injurious behavior, and character pathology. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made treatment recommendations based upon knowledge of treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive/behavior interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback or relaxation training; and/or I have observed therapist-client interactions and made recommendations regarding appropriate treatment; and/or I have recommended efficacious treatment modalities for specific clinical diagnoses. I have made treatment recommendations and referred clients to program components such as behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems interventions, group counseling, biofeedback, relaxation training, anger management; and/or I have formulated individualized treatment plans as part of a mental health treatment team; and/or I have coordinated a research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions such as behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions or group counseling; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have led a research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. None of the above. 7 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist must have expertise in conducting both individual and group psychotherapy, which includes facilitating both psychoeducational and process groups. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral or psycho-educational; and/or I have participated in research that assessed the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality on an individual; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy in a group setting. I have provided psychotherapy services to sex offenders in an outpatient setting; and/or I have co-facilitated a group psychoeducational session; and/or I have observed and critiqued other clinicians as they conducted group therapy. I have conducted individual and group psychotherapy using cognitive-behavioral treatment techniques; and/or I have facilitated a specialized population psychotherapy group; and/or I have participated in research which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality in an individual or within a group session. None of the above. 8 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist must demonstrate specialized skills in the area of sex offenders. He/she demonstrates a knowledge of the professional literature pertaining to this area of practice, and is familiar with and follows the practice and ethical guidelines of the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided therapy/assessment services in a prison-based, residential treatment program for sex offenders; and/or I have provided direct clinical services, to include assessment and therapeutic interventions at an intensive outpatient program for sex offenders; and/or I have provided the oversight and supervision of direct clinical services by providing therapy/assessments in an outpatient sex offender evaluation unit; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for sex offenders on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for civilly-committed sex offenders. I have provided psychotherapy services or conducted mental health evaluations of justice-involved persons; and/or I have performed treatments on psychotherapy within a community-based practice that treats sexual offenders; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for sex offenders on probation. I have provided either assessment or psychoeducation groups during a primary rotation on sex offender evaluation or treatment; and/or I have provided clinical or assessment services to individuals in a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated psychoeducational groups within a sex offender treatment program during a formal practicum. None of the above. 9 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving a patient in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have conducted mental health screenings or assessments; and/or I have participated and assisted in conflict resolution during a group session; and/or I have participated in a mock emergency exercise in which crisis-services were delivered. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico) or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret general psychological tests and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered objective personality measures and summarized the results of these tests; and/or I have conducted intelligence tests on school children with academic problems and documented the results of the testing; and/or I have administered psychological testing for a University-based research project. I have conducted evaluations using sex offender risk assessment tests (i.e., STATIC 99, SORAG, SVR-20, Sonar, MnSOST, RRASOR); and/or I have conducted assessments of sex offenders using measures of deviant arousal (e.g., Abel Screen or Penile Plethysmograph); and/or I have conducted evaluations on supervised release using sex offender-specific assessment instruments. I have conducted objective personality measures or intelligence testing and written reports analyzing the test findings; and/or I have performed neuropsychological evaluations and prepared reports conveying conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. None of the above. 6 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist must be knowledgeable about empirically based treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, psychosis, substances abuse/dependence, suicidality and self-injurious behavior, and character pathology. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided cognitive-behavioral treatment interventions for sex offenders in a residential treatment program; and/or I have served as a member of a treatment team providing psychological services to sex offenders on probation; and/or I have worked in a community treatment program providing specialized treatment services for sex offenders. I have made treatment recommendations and referred clients to program components such as behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems interventions, group counseling, biofeedback, relaxation training, anger management; and/or I have formulated individualized treatment plans as part of a mental health treatment team; and/or I have coordinated a research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions such as behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions or group counseling; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have led a research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. None of the above. 7 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist must have expertise in conducting both individual and group psychotherapy, which includes facilitating both psycho educational and process groups. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted individual and group psychotherapy using cognitive-behavioral treatment techniques; and/or I have facilitated a specialized population psychotherapy group; and/or I have participated in research which included the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality in an individual or within a group session. I have conducted group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral or psycho-educational; and/or I have participated in research that assessed the delivery of a particular therapeutic modality on an individual; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy in a group setting. I have facilitated a cognitive-behavioral therapy group in a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have conducted individual, cognitive-behaviorally based psychotherapy with sex offenders in a forensic setting; and/or I have maintained an individual and/or group caseload of sex offenders in an outpatient setting providing cognitive-behaviorally oriented interventions. None of the above. 8 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist must demonstrate specialized skills in the area of sex offenders. He/she demonstrates a knowledge of the professional literature pertaining to this area of practice, and is familiar with and follows the practice and ethical guidelines of the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided either assessment or psychoeducation groups during a primary rotation on sex offender evaluation or treatment; and/or I have provided clinical or assessment services to individuals in a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have co-facilitated psychoeducational groups within a sex offender treatment program during a formal practicum. I have provided therapy/assessment services in a prison-based, residential treatment program for sex offenders; and/or I have provided direct clinical services, to include assessment and therapeutic interventions at an intensive outpatient program for sex offenders; and/or I have provided the oversight and supervision of direct clinical services by providing therapy/assessments in an outpatient sex offender evaluation unit; and/or I have provided outpatient psychotherapy groups for sex offenders on probation; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy and clinical case management for civilly-committed sex offenders. I have worked as a forensic examiner with a specialization in sex offenders for criminal courts; and/or I have conducted risk assessments of sex offenders as a component of civil commitment proceedings; and/or I have performed psychosexual assessments of sex offenders in the context of a sex offender treatment program; and/or I have conducted psychological evaluations on civilly-committed sex offenders; and/or I have provided individual or group treatment for sex offenders. None of the above. 9 The Sex Offender Program Psychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving an patient in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).