Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the statement that best describes your education and experience Answer to this question is required I have a law degree from an accredited university. I am a member of the District of Columbia Bar with a minimum of five (5) years of general experience in a legal or judicial environment. I have a law degree from an accredited university. I am a member of the District of Columbia Bar with six (6) to eight (8) years of general experience in a legal or judicial environment. I have a law degree from an accredited university. I am a member of the District of Columbia Bar with nine (9) to ten (10) years of general experience in a legal or judicial environment. I have a law degree from an accredited university. I am a member of the District of Columbia Bar with over ten (10) years of general experience in a legal or judicial environment. None of the above 2 Select the response that best describes your knowledge of the theory, concepts and practices of probate, fiduciary and trust law. Answer to this question is required I have no education or experience in this area. I am formally educated in this area but have not applied it on the job. I have 4-6 years of experience in this area. I have 7-9 years of experience in this area. I have more than 10 years of experience in this area. 3 Which response best describes the depth and breadth of your experience in planning and/organizing work under the pressure of deadlines, predetermined time frames and competing demands? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in planning and/organizing work under the pressure of deadlines, predetermined time frames and competing demands. I have experience in planning, organizing, and completing my work under the pressure of deadlines, predetermined time frames and competing demands under close supervision of a supervisor. I have experience in planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of my work under the pressure of deadlines, predetermined time frames and competing demands, with the support of a senior employee. I have experience in planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of my work under the pressure of deadlines, predetermined time frames and competing demands without the review of a supervisor or senior employee. 4 Please select the choice that best describes your experience researching and analyzing laws and regulations, independently applying them in order to analyze complex legal questions, determine appropriate course of action and draft concise memoranda, motions or briefs within designated time frames and legal requirements. Answer to this question is required I do not have this experience. I have experience researching and analyzing laws and regulations. As a part of a team I researched and analyzed laws and regulations, applying them in order to evaluate complex legal questions, determine appropriate course of action and draft concise memoranda, motions or briefs within designated time frames and legal requirements for management review. Under the direct supervision of a senior manager I research and analyze laws and regulations, applying them in order to evaluate complex legal questions, determine appropriate course of action and draft concise memoranda, motions or briefs within designated time frames and legal requirements. I independently research and analyze laws and regulations, applying them in order to analyze complex legal questions, determine appropriate course of action and draft concise memoranda, motions or briefs within designated time frames and legal requirements. 5 Which statement best describes your knowledge and application of the District of Columbia (D.C.) Code? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the D.C. Code. I have some knowledge of the D.C. Code. I have knowledge of the D.C. Code, and have applied it in a law school setting. I have knowledge of the D.C. Code, and have applied it in a legal setting. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Select the audiences with which you have experience communicating orally and in writing. Answer to this question is required Colleagues Managers Judges and Judicial staff General public Technical experts Professional organizations Attorneys None of the above 7 Select a response that best reflects how closely you have worked with executive level officials in your organization. Answer to this question is required As a part of my duties, I was required to advise executive level officials, senior management or judicial officers on policies, procedures, and practices and made recommendations to enhance efficiency in operations based on my research and analysis. As a part of my job I was required to research and analyze policies, procedures and practices. The recommendations regarding enhancement of efficiency in operations that I made, were presented to the executive level officials, senior management or judicial officers, by my supervisor. I was part of a team that researched and analyzed policies, procedures and practices. The recommendations regarding enhancement of efficiency in operations that we made, were presented to the executive level officials, senior management or judicial officers, by our supervisor. None of the above apply. 8 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting legal research to provide sound legal advice, counsel, and, interpretation of legal matters? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Select the response that best describes your experience analyzing fiduciary accounts and responding to audit and investigation reports. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Select the response that best describes your knowledge of the preparation and filing of fiduciary accounts for decedent estates, interventions or conservatorships, guardianships for minors and trusts. Answer to this question is required I have personally prepared and filed such accounts in a court for 11 years or more. I have personally prepared and filed such accounts in a court for more than 6 years, but less than 11 years. I have not personally prepared such accounts, but I have overseen the preparation of such accounts and filed them for more than 6 years. None of the above applies, but I am thoroughly aware of the requirements for preparing and filing fiduciary accounts. None of the above applies. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).