Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-07 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-08 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-08 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. You do not need to compete for this job if you are a GL/GS-08 or higher or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-08.&nbsp; You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-08 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-08 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. As of July 31, 2022, &nbsp;the promotion potential of all Correctional Officers (GL/GS-05/06), Seniors Officers (GL/GS-07) has been reclassified to a Senior Officer Specialist (GL/GS-08). If you are a GL/GS-0007-05, 06, 07 or 08 (Correctional Officer, Senior Officer or Senior Officer Specialist) as of July 31, 2022 , YOU DO NOT NEED TO COMPETE for this job. Please select one of the answers below in the question to follow: Yes, I am currently at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-08 level without my having to compete. NOTE : If you were previously a Correctional Officer GL/GS-0007-05/06/07 and vacated the position prior to July 31, 2022 , you would NOT meet the career ladder GL/GS-08 of this position and therefore will need to compete for the GL/GS-08. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-08, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-07 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-08 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-08 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Correctional Systems Officer must communicate clearly and concisely with large groups of inmates or in one-on-one settings during stressful/non-stressful situations. They must also communicate with institution staff, federal, state and local law enforcement officials, the U.S. Attorney&rsquo;s Office, inmates and their attorneys, general public and other significant parties to obtain and exchange factual information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to state, local or other federal authorities regarding specific inmate movement or other related issues; and/or I have supervised work cadre in Receiving and Discharge (R&D); and/or I have addressed new inmates with details of Receiving and Discharge (R&D) procedures; and/or I have attended routine meetings while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS); and/or I have, while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS), reviewed and interpreted court documents relating to commitment and relayed this information. I have convinced a violent inmate to remain calm to prevent altercations or disputes; and/or I have passed along essential information to next shift of officers; and/or I have diffused situations in Receiving & Discharge (R&D) with inmates such as when one or more inmates complained about visual searches; and/or I have directed emergency crews; and/or I have explained issues regarding jail credit; and/or I have explained sentence computations to representatives in the U.S. Attorney’s Office; and/or I have explained the procedures for lodging and removing a detainer to state and local authorities; and/or I have explained the procedures for resolving untried charges through the Interstate Agreement on Detainers Act (IADA); and/or I have, while serving in an acting capacity for the Supervisory Correctional Systems Specialist (SCSS), participated in the institution Admission and Orientation (A&O) program for inmates. I have counseled troubled/problematic inmates; and/or I have identified officers from outside the agency who were delivering inmates; and/or I have explained to outside officers regarding Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy regarding weapons in the institution; and/or I have provided guidance to inmates concerning jail credit; and/or I have worked in the Locator Center taking calls to determine the release of information on inmates. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Systems Officer responds to inquiries from law enforcement agencies and prepares a variety of legal forms, notifications, memoranda and letters pertaining to detainers, the Interstate Agreement on Detainers (IAD) process, sentencing of inmates and other department matters. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared detainer action letters; and/or I have prepared documents for Judgment and Commitment (J&C) files; and/or I have prepared responses to administrative remedies in response to inmate requests. I have completed standard notification forms upon escape of inmates; and/or I have provided status reports of workload to supervisor; and/or I have drafted requests to state or local law enforcement agencies for information on the status of sentences or convictions. I have prepared institution supplements and/or change notices on inmate issues for the Warden’s signature; and/or I have responded to tort claims; and/or I have notified Designation & Sentence Computation Center (DSCC) to resolve any discrepancies noted in court documents related to sentence computation. None of the above. 6 The Correctional Systems Officer must have basic computer skills in order to use and understand basic data entry systems and computer programs such as SENTRY, electronic Inmate Central File (e-ICF), BOPWare, Justice Web Interface to NCIC (JWIN), PACER, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Adobe, Outlook, and Trust Fund Payroll Accounting for Inmate Details (TRUPAID). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved information on locator center procedures pertaining to inmates; and/or I have reviewed and keyed inmate court movements; and/or I have tracked and keyed inmate movement from within institution; and/or I have, per court documents, keyed inmate’s committed, legal, and true names. I have keyed payroll for inmate work cadre; and/or I have entered furlough information into SENTRY; and/or I have analyzed court documents and entered detainer or notification information into SENTRY; and/or I have used Outlook to complete and distribute daily rosters, court receipts or waitlists throughout the institution; and/or I have disseminated sensitive information regarding designations, redesignations, and transfer of inmates. I have generated public information inmate data; and/or I have retrieved agency manuals relating to movement of inmates; and/or I have retrieved information from computer to complete standard forms. None of the above. 7 The Correctional Systems Officer utilizes a variety of legal resources contained in agency manuals, program statements, court decisions, U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, federal sentencing laws and other related documents. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed agency procedures in completing standard forms; and/or I have used the Mail Management Manual to respond to an inmate inquiry regarding mail; and/or I have followed procedures for admission and discharge of inmates. I have processed an inmate request according to the Interstate Agreement on Detainer Act (IADA); and/or I have read and interpreted court documents and completed processing upon commitment; and/or I have conducted audits for a department program. I have investigated information collected from staff, inmates, laws and court documents to resolve a variety of administrative remedies; and/or I have researched sources, including the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, agency/directives; and/or I have monitored temporary releases such as writs and Interstate Agreement on Detainers. None of the above. 8 The Correctional Systems Officer must possess extensive knowledge of acceptable security regulations/practices and techniques in order to ensure safety of staff and prevent introduction of contraband through the U.S. Mail, inmate property or hidden within body cavities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed all new commitments by taking fingerprints, photographs, property inventory and identification cards; and/or I have prepared all incoming and outgoing U.S. Marshals’ receipts; and/or I have prepared Transfer Receipts. I have detected a concealed weapon during search of person; and/or I have differentiated legal mail and processed appropriately; and/or I have conducted physical processing and identification; and/or I have safeguarded and disbursed personal property; and/or I have intercepted inappropriate mail, such as mail from one inmate to another inmate. I have assessed inmates to determine potential medical problems, assaultive behavior, psychological well-being, anxieties associated with confinement, and separation needs; and/or I have, prior to arrival to Receiving & Discharge (R&D), completed checks for witness security inmates; and/or I have operated biological/chemical detection system for all mail and packages. None of the above. 9 The Correctional Systems Officer has full accountability for the organization, security, maintenance, and control of all records and files in the Records Office, Mail Room, and Receiving and Discharge (R&amp;D) area. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and maintained population index system; and/or I have electronically cataloged and filed legal documents; and/or I have determined storage for legal reference materials. I have developed a computer program to track electronic and paper files; and/or I have maintained electronic program for tracking files; and/or I have created a program to track workflow and assignments; and/or I have developed a manual and/or computer program to facilitate the archiving and retrieval of files. I have purged Judgement & Commitment (J&C) files of unnecessary paperwork; and/or I have created accountable mail logbook; and/or I have maintained logbook for inmate personal property. None of the above. 10 The Correctional Systems Officer must interact with male and female inmates from different backgrounds. On occasion, it is necessary to manage and control hostile and potentially violent inmates.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have visually searched inmates and retrieved contraband; and/or I have traveled as escort officer with inmates on bus or via automobile; and/or I have identified and isolated potentially violent inmates. I have, per policy, directed inmate orderlies out of Receiving & Discharge (R&D) during bus/airlift movement; and/or I have fingerprinted inmate who offered little cooperation; and/or I have identified a potentially problematic inmate and retrieved Inmate Disciplinary Data to review discipline data. I have recognized psychological anxiety among inmates and separated accordingly; and/or I have taken proper action when two inmates became involved in physical altercation in the presence of other inmates; and/or I have appropriately summoned medical attention when inmate developed seizure, in presence of other inmates. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).