Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of human resources management principles and methods.** Used knowledge of a range of administrative management functions in an office, specifically in the area of human resources, in order to monitor requirements, interpret policies, and offer guidance for coordinating functions in an office. Answer to this question is required Independently provided administrative support in human resources for an office for at least FOUR of the following: 1) monitoring the administration of performance management; 2) advising and informing managers and staff of regulations and policies and updates to regulations and policies, regarding human resources management; 3) coordinating and processing personnel actions; 4) providing technical advice and assistance on questions related to human resources functions; and 5) managing time and attendance and leave administration, assuring timeliness of processing. With minimal supervision, provided administrative support in human resources for an office for at least FOUR of the above. Independently or with minimal supervision, provided administrative support in human resources for an office for THREE of the above. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to perform administrative management functions.** The ability to perform a variety of administrative management functions including: 1) initiate staffing and related personnel actions for an office, 2) conduct and oversee training relating to office systems, time and attendance, and/or administrative procedures, 3) order and maintain supplies for an office, 4) manage office and cubicle space assignments, 5) serve as liaison for telecommunications and technology support, and 6) coordinate travel for staff. Answer to this question is required Independently provided administrative support for an office by managing calendars for senior staff and performing at least FIVE (5) of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office by managing calendars for senior staff and performing FOUR (4) of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office by managing calendars for senior staff and performing THREE (3) of the above. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interact collaboratively with others exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide consultation and liaison services. The ability to work well and cooperate with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units). Exercise judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipate their current and future needs and exchange accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts internal to the workgroup or office exercising judgment and discretion and ensuring administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues by providing general information from established standards. Referred contentious situations to management and senior staff. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work accomplished. This includes the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision planned, organized and executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Identified work objectives and determined project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, and resources required so all project goals were met. Monitored and evaluated all project activities and assignments. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities, including identifying work objectives, aspects of the project approach, steps and input required, schedules, milestones and resources required. This included identifying aspects of the work objectives and project approach and meeting deadlines and milestones established by a supervisor. With supervision, completed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. Work assignments were primarily planned by supervisors. Met deadlines and accomplished work under general supervision. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation. This includes the ability to apply knowledge of the principles and techniques of writing and editing sufficient to review and analyze written products for clarity of expression, accuracy, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness. Answer to this question is required Have experience producing AT LEAST EIGHT (8) of the below documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervision. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing the written products below: 1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) management reports, 3) notes and/or meeting minutes, 4) travel justifications, 5) procurement documentation, 6) human resources documentation, 7) training materials, 8) presentations, and 9) policies and/or standard operating procedures. Have experience producing AT LEAST SIX (6) of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing written products. Have experience producing AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above documents in an administrative setting with supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing written products. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Grade: 11 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of human resources management principles and methods.** Used knowledge of a range of administrative management functions in an office, specifically in the area of human resources, in order to monitor requirements, interpret policies, and offer guidance for coordinating functions in an office. Answer to this question is required Independently provided administrative support in human resources for an office for ALL of the following: 1) monitoring the administration of performance management; 2) advising and informing managers and staff of regulations and policies and updates to regulations and policies regarding human resources management; 3) coordinating and processing personnel actions; 4) providing technical advice and assistance on questions related to human resources functions; and 5) managing time and attendance and leave administration. Independently provided administrative support in human resources for an office for FOUR of the above. With minimal supervision, provided administrative support in human resources for an office for at least FOUR of the above. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to perform administrative management functions.** The ability to perform a variety of administrative management functions including: 1) initiate staffing and related personnel actions for an office, 2) conduct and oversee training relating to office systems, time and attendance, and/or administrative procedures, 3) order and maintain supplies for an office, 4) manage office and cubicle space assignments, 5) serve as liaison for telecommunications and technology support, and 6) coordinate travel for staff. Answer to this question is required Independently provided administrative support for an office by managing calendars for senior staff and performing ALL of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office by managing calendars for senior staff and performing FIVE (5) of the above. Independently provided administrative support for an office by managing calendars for senior staff and performing FOUR (4) of the above. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interact collaboratively with others exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide consultation and liaison services. The ability to work well and cooperate with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units). Exercise judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipate their current and future needs and exchange accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Participated in discussions and conferences concerning long-range planning and administrative matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts internal to the workgroup or office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Individuals had similar views and goals. Exercised judgment and discretion providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work accomplished. This includes the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized and executed multiple, work assignments with competing priorities. Identified work objectives and determined project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, and resources required so all project goals were met. Monitored and evaluated all project activities and assignments, anticipating problems in advance. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. This included identifying work objectives, aspects of the project approach, steps and input required, schedules, milestones and resources required so all project goals were met. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. This included identifying aspects of the work objectives and project approach and meeting deadlines and milestones established by a supervisor. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation. This includes the ability to apply knowledge of the principles and techniques of writing and editing sufficient to review and analyze written products for clarity of expression, accuracy, timeliness, completeness and responsiveness. Answer to this question is required Have experience producing ALL of the below documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing the written products below: 1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) management reports, 3) notes and/or meeting minutes, 4) travel justifications, 5) procurement documentation, 6) human resources documentation, 7) training materials, 8) presentations, and 9) policies and/or standard operating procedures. Have experience producing EIGHT (8) of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing written products. Have experience producing AT LEAST SIX (6) of the above documents in an administrative setting either independently or with minimal supervisory review. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these documents or written products. Documents were clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable. Applied grammar, writing, style, and editing guidelines and practices in producing written products. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).