Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Applicants must possess a degree which includes or is supplemented by at least 24 semester hours appropriate to the position to be filled in one or a combination of the areas described below.&nbsp; At least one course must have been from (1) or (2) below.&nbsp; For guidance counselor positions, a college or university-sponsored practicum in counseling is also required. Tests and measurement: &nbsp;Study of the selection, evaluation, administration, scoring, interpretation, and uses of group and individual aptitude, proficiency, interest, and other tests. Adult education: &nbsp;Study of the adult as a learner, teaching-learning theories for adults, models and procedures for planning, designing, managing, and evaluating adult learning activities. Educational program administration: &nbsp;Study of the foundation and methods in organizing for adult and continuing education programs. Curriculum development or design: &nbsp;Study of the principles and techniques for development of curricula for adult or vocational education programs. Teaching methods: &nbsp;Study of teaching strategies and learning styles of the adult learner. Guidance and counseling: &nbsp;Study of the purposes and methods in counseling and guidance, the role of the counselor in various settings, approaches to counseling, and the uses of tests in the counseling situation. Career planning: &nbsp;Study of career development, learning activities, systems, approaches, program coordination, use of educational and community resources, and vocational counseling systems. Occupational information: &nbsp;Study of theories of occupational choice and vocational development and their application to the guidance process. Identification and utilization of various types of occupational information and resources. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The School Counselor must possess excellent oral communication skills for effective delivery of services to Federal inmates within the facility. Additionally, these skills are required for collaboration purposes with fellow staff members in all Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) institutions, Regional Offices&rsquo;, Central Office administration, and in partnerships with external providers including community supports. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated with outside organization or individuals in an effort to enhance classroom instruction and delivery of services; and/or I have briefed management or faculty on information related to educational needs; and/or I have served as a liaison for external partners or organization; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution. I have presented an overview of program area to staff; and/or I have discussed issues with union leaders, advisory boards, or community action groups; and/or I have provided oral updates in faculty/team meetings with supervisors; and/or I have addressed student social-emotional concerns appropriately; and/or I have discussed student progress with a team of educational professionals. I have delivered training to a team of school counselors, faculty, or group of administrators; and/or I have made presentations at international, national, or regional conference/convention; and/or I have served as lead representative to a large taskforce on work-related issues; and/or I have lectured at a post-secondary institution. None of the above. 4 The School Counselor must possess excellent writing skills to develop a curriculum for school counseling classes, create lessons for these classes, document inmate progress for educational-career-technical needs, and correct inmate's writing errors. He/she must also be able to effectively communicate in writing with all levels of Bureau staff and outside agencies as well as to create materials for the institution&rsquo;s Job Fairs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed existing documents and submitted recommended editorial changes to clarify/further define policies and procedures; and/or I have independently created draft program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures for higher level review and approval; and/or I have submitted recommendations for consideration to update an instructional program statement, to conform with policy changes; and/or I have proposed student testing procedures; and/or I have made modifications to existing curricula/lesson plans. I have prepared memoranda using a pre-established format; and/or I have completed individual school counseling reports; and/or I have written referrals to external agencies for student needs; and/or I have assisted in reviewing work prepared by others for format, content, and grammatical accuracy. I have independently developed a curriculum program of instruction for a school district or school; and/or I have developed in-depth, year-long lesson plans; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement; developed an instructional evaluation program; and/or I have prepared a report summarizing the results of a project; and/or I have developed student testing procedures; and/or I have developed program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures; and/or I have published an article on school counseling in a professional journal or academic text. None of the above. 5 The School Counselor is expected to develop and implement a comprehensive school counseling program that applies academic achievement strategies to inmate&rsquo;s education plans, which meet individual goals for career-technical opportunities. He/she works collaboratively with fellow Education staff members to gather, review, analyze, and interpret academic data for counseling planning purposes and is responsible for the administration, interpretation, and documentation of data results for career interest surveys. He/she also develops individual career counseling programs, based on national standards, that lead to institutional career-technical training opportunities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated with both internal and external partners to develop, improve, or expand school counseling services; and/or I have led, advocated, and collaborated with multiple external agencies to facilitate educational and career-technical opportunities for students; and/or I have designed and delivered training on the development and organization of a highly effective school counseling program at a professional conference or national/state/local educational consortium; and/or I have created a school counseling program based on American School Counseling Association (ASCA) standards and practices that yielded successful outcomes. I have met with administrative team to review and analyze current school counseling practices; and/or I have contracted with a nearby agency for clinical support; and/or I have collaborated with educators to provide their expertise in areas of specific career-technical trades to students; and/or I have partnered to design a series of school counseling classes to be offered each semester. I have worked with a team of both internal and external partners to develop, improve, or expand school counseling services; and/or I have acted as a liaison with community partners to provide ancillary services to the school counseling program; and/or I have collaborated with an external agency to facilitate educational, social-emotional-behavioral, and career-technical supports for students; and/or I have developed an organizational framework for school counseling services, including setting priorities, determining materials required, and creating short and long-term goals; and/or I have completed progress monitoring of a district or school-wide school counseling program. None of the above. 6 The School Counselor possesses the training and expertise necessary for appropriate and supportive interactions with incarcerated individuals requiring academic and career-technical field assistance. He/she is trained and proficient in providing a multitude of guidance-related services to inmates, including those focused on educational supports and career-technical goals, while using sound judgment and highly focused interpersonal relations. He/she is expected to develop and maintain professional relationships with both inmates and staff that are sensitive to individual differences. He/she addresses social-emotional-behavioral needs through the referral process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered training developed by others on a school-based counseling team; and/or I have completed social-emotional-behavioral checklists, reporting results and other technical information to lead counselor or administrator; and/or I have used discretion when reviewing counseling case reports with others by sharing only necessary information; and/or I have referred students to a lead counselor for intervention; and/or I have located key agencies and contact personnel to facilitate working relationships. I have developed, directed/delivered training on interpersonal skill development to a large group of professionals at a conference in a state, regional, or district level; and/or I have led a district-wide or school-based program on interpersonal skill development; and/or I have modeled appropriate behavior and professional interactions for staff and students; and/or I have trained others on use of maintaining privacy and confidentiality when discussing student cases with others, inclusive of intellectual and achievement testing results as well as social-emotional-behavioral indices; and/or I have led district-wide training/actual application of de-escalation in crisis or other stressful situation. I have developed/delivered training on interpersonal skill development to a small group of professionals at a district or school level; and/or I have led a school-based program on interpersonal skill development; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to staff/students; and/or I have maintained privacy and confidentiality when discussing student cases with others, inclusive of intellectual and achievement testing results as well as social-emotional-behavioral indices; and/or I have attended other department meetings as a representative for school counselors and provided input; and/or I have led school-based training/actual application of de-escalation in crisis or other stressful situation. None of the above. 7 The School Counselor is expected to apply academic achievement strategies, assess inmate career interests and aptitudes, interpret career inventory and other testing results, and provide guidance for career-technical educational goals that lead to reentry success for individual learning styles. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed curriculum and supplemental activities for integration of content and perspectives; and/or I have taught principles of training regarding family and educational backgrounds, cultures, and beliefs at a faculty meeting or to students; and/or I have created supplemental materials on how to motivate students to obtain optimal educational performance; and/or I have participated in an academic research team for school-based curricula for decision-making purposes; and/or I have independently developed and tailored behavioral control techniques for students. I have delivered instructor-skills training at a conference, state, or district/school-wide level to teach others in evidence-based best practices for delivery of student supports; and/or I have illustrated and instructed fellow professionals in the development of curriculum and supplemental activities for integration of content and perspectives within a large group format; and/or I have trained others in the administration of a variety of assessment tools as well as scoring and interpretation; and/or I have taught training at conference, state, or district/school-wide level regarding family and educational backgrounds, cultures, and beliefs; and/or I have provided training on how to motivate students to obtain optimal educational performance; and/or I have led academic research teams for district or school based curricula decision-making purposes. I have used curriculum and supplemental activities for integration of content and perspectives in a classroom; and/or I have assisted in delivering training regarding family and educational backgrounds, cultures, and beliefs to students; and/or I have provided motivational tips to students, to obtain optimal educational performance; and/or I have encouraged open discussions of various cultures/backgrounds during instructional classes. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).