Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Write/Communicate in Writing. ** Drafted clear, cogent, well-organized legal and policy documents. Examples include: 1) legal memos, 2) position papers, 3) analytical studies, 4) documents drafting, reviewing and/or analyzing statutes and regulations, 5) court briefs and/or articles and publications, and 6) policy and procedural documents. Answer to this question is required Experience preparing complex domestic and international copyright and/or intellectual property legal documents and materials independently or with minimal supervisory direction, including AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above. Experience preparing complex domestic and international copyright and/or intellectual property legal documents and materials independently or with minimal supervisory direction, including THREE (3) of the above. Experience preparing domestic and international copyright and/or intellectual property legal documents and materials independently or with minimal supervisory direction, including TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Conduct Legal Research and Analysis of Domestic and International Intellectual Property Matters. ** Performed in-depth legal research and analyzed and evaluated information to prepare written materials on legal or policy issues. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on difficult domestic and foreign intellectual property matters (copyrights, trademarks, and/or trade secrets). Some of the research and materials have shown the applicant to be a contributor to the field of domestic and international copyright or other areas of intellectual property law. Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on domestic and/or foreign intellectual property matters (copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets). Example: Drafted policies and procedures implementing new and amended legislation, ensuring consistency with the intent of the law. Experience researching and preparing documents and materials on moderately difficult domestic and/or foreign intellectual property matters with clearly applicable precedents. Research was often conducted at the direction of a more senior attorney. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of Domestic and International Copyright and Intellectual Property Matters. ** Demonstrated knowledge of domestic and international copyright law, and/or other areas of Title 17. Answer to this question is required Experience demonstrating considerable knowledge of the current status of domestic and international copyright issues. Monitors ongoing international and domestic copyright related developments and activities. Experience demonstrating knowledge of the current status of domestic and international issues. Took the lead on providing advice and assistance regarding international and domestic copyright and/or other intellectual property matters. Examples: Studied copyright law in law school and has handled multiple matters requiring substantive knowledge of domestic and international copyright law. Experience demonstrating knowledge of the principles and concepts of domestic and international copyright law and the current status of copyright issues. Example: Took more than one copyright course in law school or worked on some copyright matters. Provided advice and assistance regarding copyright and/or intellectual property issues. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Convey Legal Analysis and Information Orally Through Briefings, Consultations, and Other Presentations. Communicated analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations. This includes targeting the amount, form, level of detail and content of information based on the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Presented analysis on a variety of domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous. Examples include, giving presentations to government, private sector, colleagues, and general audiences. Presented analysis on a variety of domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters primarily to audiences within the Copyright Office but also to other government agencies and organizations in the private and public sector. Presented analysis on a variety of domestic and international copyright and/or intellectual property matters to audiences with varying levels of expertise. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Meet and Deal with Others. Developed and maintained relationships with a variety of individuals to accomplish the position&rsquo;s duties. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships with persons in the private and public sector including attorneys and those with recognized professional standing in domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters. Led and participated in discussions on legal issues to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with persons in the private and public sector including attorneys and/or those with recognized professional standing in copyright. Participated in discussions on legal issues including some related to intellectual property to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with persons in the private and/or public sector including other attorneys. Participated in discussions on legal issues to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Grade: 14 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Write/Communicate in Writing. ** Drafted clear, cogent, well-organized legal and policy documents. Examples include: 1) legal memos, 2) position papers, 3) analytical studies, 4) documents drafting, reviewing and/or analyzing statutes and regulations, 5) court briefs and/or articles and publications, and 6) policy and procedural documents. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience preparing complex domestic and international copyright and intellectual property legal documents and materials including independently preparing AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above. Extensive experience preparing complex domestic and international copyright and intellectual property legal documents and materials including independently preparing FOUR (4) of the above. Extensive experience preparing complex copyright and intellectual property legal documents and materials including independently preparing THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Conduct Legal Research and Analysis of Domestic and International Intellectual Property Matters. ** Performed in-depth legal research and analyzed and evaluated information to prepare written materials on legal or policy issues. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience researching and preparing complex documents and materials on domestic and foreign intellectual property matters (copyrights, trademarks, and/or trade secrets). Some of the research and materials have shown the applicant to be a significant contributor to the field of domestic and foreign copyright and other areas of intellectual property law. Examples include: Researched and drafted major copyright bill, authored several briefs on international intellectual property matters. Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on difficult domestic and foreign intellectual property matters (copyrights, trademarks, and/or trade secrets). Some of the research and materials have shown the applicant to be a contributor to the field of domestic and international copyright or other areas of intellectual property law. Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on domestic and/or foreign intellectual property matters (copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets). Example: Drafted policies and procedures implementing new and amended legislation, ensuring consistency with the intent of the law. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of Domestic and International Copyright and Intellectual Property Matters. ** Demonstrated knowledge of domestic and international copyright law, and/or other areas of Title 17. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an expert on the current status of domestic and international copyright issues. Monitors ongoing international copyright related developments and activities as well as judicial activity and administrative developments originating in other agencies or organizations impacting copyright matters. Experience demonstrating considerable knowledge of the current status of domestic and international copyright issues. Monitors ongoing international and domestic copyright related developments and activities. Experience demonstrating knowledge of the current status of domestic and international issues. Took the lead on providing advice and assistance regarding international and domestic copyright and/or other intellectual property matters. Examples: Studied copyright law in law school and has handled multiple matters requiring substantive knowledge of domestic and international copyright law. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Convey Legal Analysis and Information Orally Through Briefings, Consultations, and Other Presentations. Communicated analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations. This includes targeting the amount, form, level of detail and content of information based on the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Presented analysis on a variety of complex domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous. Examples include, briefing U.S. and foreign officials and experts and giving presentations to government, private sector, colleagues, and general audiences. Presented analysis on a variety of domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous. Examples include, giving presentations to government, private sector, colleagues, and general audiences. Presented analysis on a variety of domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters primarily to audiences within the Copyright Office but also to other government agencies and organizations in the private and public sectors. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Meet and Deal with Others. Developed and maintained relationships with a variety of individuals to accomplish the position&rsquo;s duties. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships with officials at the policy making level and their senior staff, including staff and officials in other agencies, and individuals of recognized professional standing in domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters. Led and participated in discussions on legal and policy issues to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with officials at the policy making level and their senior staff and/or individuals of recognized professional standing in domestic and international copyright and intellectual property matters. Participated in discussions on legal and policy issues to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with persons in the private and public sector including attorneys and/or those with recognized professional standing in copyright. Participated in discussions on legal issues to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).