Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-10 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Electronics Technician has direct and frequent contact with institutional staff, inmates, Central and Regional Office staff, representatives from manufacturers, contractors, distributors and various research organizations. Effective oral and written communication skills are required to effectively provide technical assistance, and to obtain or justify needed information to stay abreast of new equipment or techniques used in the areas relative to biomedical engineering and equipment installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared time schedules and progress reports; and/or I have initiated requisition documentation relative to patient care equipment for submittal to supervisor or equivalent; and/or I have assisted with facilitating courses on a variety of new biomedical equipment/systems being implemented for use. I have evaluated bids and submittals from contractors to ensure compliance with regulations and specifications; and/or I have analyzed information and prepared reports and justifications of bids and specifications; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course on proper use and daily maintenance of biomedical equipment; and/or I have collaborated with external personnel throughout the country to resolve specific technical issues. I have prepared or updated extremely technical information for departmental meetings; and/or I have presented technical reports/correspondence for presentation to non-maintenance (non-repairer) personnel (i.e., medical, including physicians, nurses, medical technicians, etc.) in a manner which was understood by all participants and resulted in improved electronics processes being implemented; and/or I have managed a new project by developing and initiating requisition documentation relative to patient care equipment and presenting such information to senior level management; and/or I have prepared highly technical responses to contractor disputes, or Requests for Information, which justified agency’s/organization’s position and resulted in the resolution of issues encountered. None of the above. 3 The Electronics Technician must apply knowledge of the theory and principles of electronics to perform the duties involved in the installation, maintenance, modification, diagnostics and troubleshooting, and subsequent repair of a wide variety of sophisticated and complex equipment and systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized diagnostic and troubleshooting methods and skills in application and use of a variety of complex test instruments; and/or I have utilized comprehensive expertise in a wide variety of sophisticated and complex biomedical equipment and systems to facilitate the training of end users by correct demonstration of use or other educational methods; and/or I have maintained significant latitude in decisions made in technical matters; and/or I have planned and implemented the installation of complex medical equipment; and/or I have completed certification requirements to meet manufacturers certification. I have recommended or designed functional changes to older or well-established medical equipment when new requirements/changes were imposed; and/or I have assisted in the planning and implementation of the installation of complex electronics systems (software and hardware); and/or I have supervised contract staff or inmate workers in repairing or completing other technical biomedical equipment related assignments. I have assisted in the installation of complex electronics systems; and/or I have maintained already developed functional changes to older or established medical equipment when new requirements were imposed; and/or I have diagnosed and replaced and changed defective printed circuit computer boards; and/or I have reviewed requirements for systems manufacturers certification. None of the above. 4 The Electronics Technician is the technical expert in the areas of maintaining, troubleshooting and repairing biomedical equipment. He/she is required to perform trouble diagnosis on medical and surgical equipment covering a broad spectrum of technologies, ranging in complexity from relatively simple to highly complex. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently conducted troubleshooting, diagnosis and repair for complex medical equipment; and/or I have installed new medical equipment for a large hospital facility; and/or I have managed multi-faceted computerized safety tester/documentation systems; and/or I have recommended and designed functional changes to older or well-established medical equipment after imposing new or changed requirements; and/or I have developed and maintained technical library of all safety or regulation requirements for health care facilities (i.e., equipment/repairs). I have conducted troubleshooting and repaired medical/surgical equipment with assistance; and/or I have estimated future needs and procured repair parts and ordinary installation materials; and/or I have maintained technical library of all safety and regulation requirements for health care facilities (i.e., repairs/installation). I have led, instructed and performed complex trouble diagnostics and repairs on a wide variety of sophisticated and complex medical equipment; and/or I have provided direct oversight for installation, maintenance, or modification of sophisticated complex electronics-based medical equipment devices; and/or I have instructed staff in the use of system-specific diagnostic equipment; and/or I have designed and fabricated test fixtures/mock-ups/equipment. None of the above. 5 The Electronics Technician must analyze guidelines, policy statements, regulations, departmental procedures, and guidelines to make judgments and decisions. He/she must have significant latitude in technical matters because guidelines pertaining to the technical functions of the positions are general and few. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained data from national data or informational sources to assist in program planning activities; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis, and reporting of program assessments; and/or I have assisted with determining workforce characteristics through an analysis of statistics. I have assisted hospital medical staff with maintaining all aspects of station biomedical equipment; and/or I have analyzed the need for new equipment and recommended means of acquisition; and/or I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. I have gathered data for analysis and used in evaluating projects; and/or I have reviewed manpower utilization and documented methods/procedures in place for performing work; and/or I have analyzed department performance and made recommendations for training which were implemented; and/or I have used SENTRY or other available automated systems to pull statistical data to include in a report or proposal; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research; and/or I have developed a Statement of Work (SOW); and/or I have analyzed results of program review data and developed a plan for correction. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).