Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Select the response that best describes your level of experience supervising employees who maintain HVAC- R Building systems, plumbing systems, and electrical systems. Answer to this question is required I have not supervised employees who perform these maintenance tasks. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have supervised maintenance employees by assigning work and managing their performance. 3 Have you been responsible for prioritizing and assigning multiple, simultaneous service requests to employees? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Please indicate which of the following areas you have experience at the journeyman level: Answer to this question is required Electrical HVAC-R Pipefitting/Plumbing None of the above 5 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Lead daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 6 Which HVAC components have you repaired or installed? Answer to this question is required Condensate pumps Heat exchangers Temperature gauges Pressure gauges Sight glasses Convectors Radiators Chilled water lines Strainers Thermostats Motor and pillar block bearings Air and water-cooled condensers Evaporators Steam traps None of the above 7 Which pipefitting and/or plumbing tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Cutting pipe Threading pipe Selecting the correct pipe size Soldering pipe joints or hubs Snaking a clogged drain Installing plumbing fixtures Replacing plumbing fixtures Installing/replacing valves Troubleshooting and repairing automatic flush toilet valves Made repairs to leaking and or broken pipes Maintain water tanks None of the above 8 Have you developed maintenance plans (PMs) for plumbing, pipefitting, or HVAC-R systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, technical manuals, sketches, building plans and notes that were complex or incomplete requiring extensive knowledge of mechanical trades terminology and symbols specifically in the areas of HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electricity. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical mechanical trades experience in HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical work. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers in HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical trades. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of mechanical systems and equipment, including HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical. Followed drawings, technical manuals, and other references in making repairs and installation of mechanical systems (HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical) under normal supervision. None of the above. 10 Choose the trade(s) in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Electrical Carpentry Pipefitting Plumbing Rigging Welding/Cutting Painting None of the above 11 &nbsp; How have you used a computer at work? Answer to this question is required To research specifications or equipment. To track my time and attendance. To track inventory of tools or supplies. To create or update work orders. To develop work plans. To schedule meetings. To operate automation systems. None of the above 12 Which mechanical instructions or specifications have you explained to other workers? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Building automation logic None of the above 13 Do you have experience applying safety standards affecting the public? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Select the response that best describes your highest level of responsibility maintaining building systems (e.g., plumbing, electrical systems, or HVAC). Answer to this question is required I have maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC- systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC- systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. None of the above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.