Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the basic qualifications requirement for an Information Technology Management, GS-2210-14 level. Answer to this question is required I have IT related experience demonstrating these four competencies: 1) Attention to Detail 2) Customer Service 3) Oral Communication ; and 4) Problem Solving. I do NOT have the IT related experience demonstrating these four competencies listed in A above. 3 Which of the following describe your previous supervisory experience? Answer to this question is required I have provided clear, consistent goals and guidelines to those under my supervision, and provided regular feedback regarding performance, including taking disciplinary action when required. Coordinated schedules and continuing education requirements for supervised employees. I have provided goals and guidelines for those under my supervision, and provided regular feedback regarding performance. Coordinated schedules for supervised employees. I have coordinated schedules for supervised employees. I have no previous supervisory experience. 4 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or manage? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, requirements of the assignments, and capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified the developmental and training needs of employees. I have ensured that staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor or manager but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 5 How have you utilized oral communication to foster collaboration, resolve conflicts, or drive decision-making in cross-functional teams or projects? Answer to this question is required I have regularly facilitated meetings and discussions, ensuring all voices are heard, conflicts are addressed, and decisions are made collaboratively. In instances of conflicts or crucial decisions, I've convened meetings or discussions to ensure transparency and collective decision-making. While I've been part of such discussions, I've not typically been the facilitator or primary communicator in conflict resolution. My role has been more technical, and I've generally relied on project managers or other leaders to handle conflict resolution or collaborative decision-making. None of the Above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience or demonstrates your experience working on a project team developing project plans for assigned area? (Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have experience working as a Project Manager and performing all 13 functions below. 1. Determines appropriate products or services with clients or customers to define project scope, requirements, and deliverables; 2. Develops, modifies, or provides input to project plans and schedules; 3. Implements project plans to meet objectives; 4. Leads troubleshooting and resolution analysis; 5. Coordinates and integrates project activities; 6. Manages, leads, or administers project resources; 7. Monitors project activities and resources to mitigate risk; 8. Implements or maintains quality assurance processes; 9. Makes improvements, solves problems, or takes corrective action when problems arise; 10. Gives presentations or briefings on all aspects of the project; 11. Participates in phase, milestone, and final project reviews; 12. Identifies project documentation requirements or procedures; and 13. Develops and implements product release plan. I have experience assisting project managers with the work breakdown to plan, execute, monitor, control, and closeout projects. None of the above 7 Which of the following demonstrates your ability to effectively communicate both orally and in writing? (Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have experience developing and presenting technical information, advice, plans, recommendations, and risks to management, stakeholders, and other professionals; negotiating technical agreements; and developing and tracking project plans. I have experience presenting technical advice, justifications, and briefings to management and other professionals. None of the above 8 How have you balanced written communication (like project documentation, technical requirements) with oral communication (meetings, presentations, briefings)? Answer to this question is required I prioritize both equally. I ensure that our written documents are comprehensive and clear, and I also recognize the importance of face-to-face communication, especially for complex or sensitive topics. While I emphasize written documentation for clarity and record-keeping, I also value oral discussions for quick decision-making and team alignment. My role has primarily revolved around written communication, ensuring that all technical details are documented. Oral communications have been less frequent. I've mainly focused on oral communications, relying on my team or peers for written documentation. None of the Above 9 Which of the following project management functions related to IT software projects have you performed on a regular basis? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have determined scope, methods and resource requirements and schedules for IT software projects. I have planned and directed the design, development, testing, deployment, implementation, maintenance, and modification of websites. I have provided oversight for the development of project plans. I have overseen the preparation of technical specifications, statements of work, task orders and other acquisition-related documentation necessary to the effective obtaining and managing of contractor-supported IT software projects. I have directed, monitored, and evaluated the performance of work by contractors. I have established management controls to ensure contractor charges/fees are fair and accurate, that the work performed is within scope and that delivery meets government requirements. None of the Above 10 Which of the following describes your experience relating to maintenance and development of collection information systems within an archive, library or museum environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience reviewing metadata standards and version updates to determine suitability, compatibility and recommend any system changes needed to accommodate. I have experience with collection information management systems with relational, object-oriented or NoSQL backend. I have experience performing data analysis to detect patterns and identify data quality issues. I have experience developing and implementing data quality and remediation projects. I have prepared data crosswalks between existing or new systems. I have no experience supporting a collections information management system. 11 Which answer below best describes your experience researching and evaluating new technologies for web and digital initiatives and services? Answer to this question is required I have led organizational efforts in researching and evaluating new technologies for web and digital initiatives and services and advised management on the feasibility of projects and new initiatives. I have participated on teams with researching and evaluating new technologies for web and digital initiatives and services and have communicated to management the feasibility of projects and new initiatives as a regular part of my job. I have assisted with researching and evaluating new technologies for web and digital initiatives and services and advising management on the feasibility of projects and new initiatives. I do not have experience researching new technologies designed to develop digital experiences and increase accessibility. 12 Which of the following experiences do you have related to Drupal web development and the management of custom websites and web applications? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes coding in PHP & JavaScript. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes web design. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes website configuration. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes automated deployments. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes accessibility testing and remediation I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes remediating web and mobile threats. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes addressing PII, COPA concerns. I have work experience in Drupal Platforms that includes performing quality assurance testing. None of the Above 13 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of planning, integrating, and evaluating digital and archival strategies? Answer to this question is required I have led the formulation of a department- or institution-wide strategy for the advancement and integration of information technology in a complex museum, library, or archives setting. I have practical experience and specialized knowledge in the following areas: collections management, digital asset management, web development, information architecture, information management. I have managed the successful completion of information technology projects in complex organizations and/or in partnership with multiple organizations. I have practical experience and specialized knowledge in the following areas: collections management, digital asset management, web development, information architecture, information management. I have contributed to the successful completion of information technology projects in complex organizations and/or in partnership with multiple organizations. I have practical knowledge and experience in the following areas: collections management, digital asset management, web development, information architecture, information management. None of the above. 14 Describe your experience in conveying complex technical strategies or challenges to senior management or non-technical stakeholders. (Select one that applies) Answer to this question is required I've regularly briefed senior leadership, ensuring they understand and are aligned with our technical strategy and addressing any concerns they might have. I've occasionally presented to senior leadership or non-technical stakeholders, breaking down complex topics for their understanding. While I've communicated with senior individuals, it's typically been in a more technical context or with those who have a technical background. My communications have generally been with peers, rather than senior management. None of the Above 15 Which of the following best describes your experience providing strategic expertise and guidance on the implementation and presentation of online content? Answer to this question is required I have independently conceptualized, directed, and ensured quality and efficiency in the production of a web-based initiative or project designed to address a specific organizational goal. I have worked as a key member of a team responsible for conceptualizing and developing a web-based initiative or project designed to address a specific organizational goal. I have worked on a web project designed to address a specific organizational goal. I do not have experience providing strategic expertise and guidance on the implementation and presentation of online content. 16 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience participating on project teams, in meetings, and in consultation with staff to ensure an organization’s strategic goals and program objectives? Answer to this question is required I have established and maintained strong working relationships within a museum or cultural organization to develop and effectively advocate for web projects that engage visitors and reflect the museum’s cultural and educational goals. I have consulted and worked with staff to develop web-based content for a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization in support of key organizational goals. I have coordinated with staff throughout an organization to develop online projects and to provide advice and direction related to web projects. I do not have experience participating on project teams, in meetings, and in consultation with staff to ensure an organization’s strategic goals and program objectives are met. 17 Choose the statement that best describes your experience, education, or training with digital imaging standards, procedures and techniques. Answer to this question is required I have education and training in digital imaging standards, procedures and techniques. I have interpreted digital imaging standards,procedures and techniques. I have interpreted digital imaging standards, procedures and techniques and have trained others in the use of digital imaging standards, procedures and techniques. I have followed guidance of supervisors in interpreting digital imaging standards, procedures and techniques. I have no knowledge of digital imaging standards, procedures and techniques. 18 Which of the following describes your knowledge of preservation standards for digital assets? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have helped develop preservation standards for digital assets stored in a digital assets management system for a cultural heritage institution. I have applied preservation standards to digital assets stored in a digital assets management system. I am familiar with preservation standards for digital assets. I am not familiar with preservation standards for digital assets. 19 Which of the following describe your experience in applying standards, best practices and principles in the fields of digital technologies, digital asset management, digital curation and metadata in digital asset management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience overseeing the digital asset management for the entire life-cycle of digital assets. I have experience overseeing the digital asset management of a large volume of digital assets. I have experience implementing XML (extensible markup language) and XML DTDs (Data Type Definition Standards) as applied to digital asset management and digital asset delivery, including EAD and/or METS and/or MODS and/or MARCXML and/or PREMIS and/or TEI. I have experience applying best practices and standards for website accessibility of digital assets. I have experience managing rights metadata for digital assets. I have no experience with any of these job functions. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.