Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Human Resources Officer must have knowledge of staffing and placement, compensation and leave, labor management practices and regulations, EEO procedures and regulations, employee relations. He/she must have the ability to resolve problems in these areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have audited a department’s performance appraisals records and provided training based on findings; and/or I have provided direction on the use of pay flexibilities and incentives; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan to address concerns with an employee’s performance; and/or I have advised a management official on appropriate handling of an official time request. I have determined qualifications for positions covered under the standards for the scientific and professional and/or administrative and management occupations; and/or I have determined applicability of highest previous rate in determining pay entitlement; and/or I have advised employees of appeal rights and formal grievance procedures. I have adjudicated veteran’s preference; and/or I have determined qualifications for positions covered under the standards for the clerical and technical occupations; and/or I have audited time and attendance files; and/or I have compiled materials for a desk audit. None of the above. 3 The Human Resources Officer writes local policy, congressional responses, grievance responses, disciplinary and adverse action letters, and correspondence for CEO signature.&nbsp; He/she must be able to effectively communicate with staff at all levels of the organization, individuals from other federal agencies, professional organizations and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written non-select/congratulatory letters; and/or I have written an informal response (e.g., email); and/or I have written meetings minutes; and/or I have written an incentive award nomination. I have created a job fair fact sheet outlining employee benefits; and/or I have created vacancy announcements or training opportunity announcements; and/or I have written an article for an agency publication/newsletter; and/or I have authored a memorandum outlining a change internal HR procedures; and/or I have written a lesson plan. I have written disciplinary action letters; and/or I have written a program review or operational review report; and/or I have written an institutional supplement; and/or I have written an objection statement to the employment of an outside applicant; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan; and/or I have written a justification to modify duties in an existing position description; and/or I have written a justification for a pay incentive None of the above. 4 The Human Resources Officer expresses ideas and facts on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals ranging from the executive staff to the public.&nbsp; He/she responds to technical questions and makes recommendations, makes oral presentations, testifies on the agency&rsquo;s behalf, conducts negotiations, and coordinates/or participates in recruitment trips.&nbsp; He/she must also possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to persuade individuals on a variety of human resources issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained position qualifications; and/or I have participated in labor relations meetings; and/or I have presented a personnel seminar for all staff during annual training; and/or I have discussed/explained career progression opportunity to others; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance or training opportunities; and/or I have counseled an employee on personnel programs such as upward mobility, retirement, and other benefits. I have advised managers/supervisors on implementation of new personnel policies; and/or I have discussed updated human resource policy at a department head meeting; and/or I have discussed the employee disciplinary process with proposing officials. I have explained a leave and earning statement entry to an employee; and/or I have explained award nomination procedures; and/or I have explained application procedures listed on a vacancy announcement. None of the above. 5 The Human Resources Officer is responsible for evaluating and interpreting laws, policies, and procedures relative to Human Resource program areas.&nbsp; The work involves evaluating program areas and policies with precision and confidence.&nbsp; He/she is required to discuss conclusions with the Executive staff and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned, supervised, and coordinated work activities of subordinates and staff relating to employment, compensation, labor relations, and employee relations; and/or I have evaluated proposed national policy and provided comments; and/or I have reviewed and made recommendations to institution supplements. I have administered the leave program in a fair and consistent manner in accordance with laws and other applicable rules/regulations; and/or I have authored an audit report outlining detailed findings planned and conducted new employee orientation to foster positive attitude toward organizational objectives. I have administered the voluntary leave transfer program; and/or I have assessed policy compliance for HR programs such as incentive awards, contract security or annual time keepers training standards; and/or I have evaluated position management reports and organizational charts to ensure accurate balance of positions. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Human Resource Officer must have knowledge of staffing and placement, compensation and leave, labor management practices and regulations, EEO procedures and regulations, employee relations.&nbsp; They must have the ability to resolve problems in these areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed and made a determination on leave restoration requests; and/or I have developed a staffing plan for an activating facility; and/or I have developed a long term recruitment strategy for hard to fill positions; and/or I have assessed applicant’s suitability based on all pre-employment screening factors; and/or I have utilized the detail for training program for GS and WS to address projected staffing concerns; and/or I have provided training on a collective bargaining agreement to mid-level management officials. I have audited a department’s performance appraisals records and provided training based on findings; and/or I have provided direction on the use of pay flexibilities and incentives; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan to address concerns with an employee’s performance; and/or I have advised a management official on appropriate handling of an official time request. I have determined qualifications for positions covered under the standards for the scientific and professional and/or administrative and management occupations; and/or I have determined applicability of highest previous rate in determining pay entitlement; and/or I have advised employees of appeal rights and formal grievance procedures, None of the above. 3 The Human Resource Officer expresses ideas and facts on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals ranging from the executive staff to the public.&nbsp; He/she responds to technical questions and makes recommendations, makes oral presentations, testifies on the agency&rsquo;s behalf, conducts negotiations, and coordinates/or participates in recruitment trips.&nbsp; He/she must also possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to persuade individuals on a variety of human resources issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised managers/supervisors on implementation of new personnel policies; and/or I have discussed updated human resource policy at a department head meeting; and/or I have discussed the employee disciplinary process with proposing officials. I have advised Warden/CEO, executive level top management staff in regards to complex personnel issues such as staffing for hard-to-fill positions, or institution position management; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures; and/or I have developed a career information program for public presentation. I have explained position qualifications; and/or I have participated in labor relations meetings; and/or I have presented a personnel seminar for all staff during annual training; and/or I have discussed/explained career progression opportunity to others; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance or training opportunities; and/or I have counseled an employee on personnel programs such as upward mobility, retirement, and other benefits. None of the above. 4 The Human Resource Officer write local policy, congressional responses, grievance responses, disciplinary and adverse action letters, lesson plans, and correspondence for CEO signature.&nbsp; He/she must be able to effectively communicate with staff at all levels of the organization, individuals from other federal agencies, professional organizations and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created a job fair fact sheet outlining employee benefits; and/or I have created vacancy announcements or training opportunity announcements; and/or I have written an article for an agency publication/newsletter; and/or I have authored a memorandum outlining a change internal HR procedures; and/or I have written a lesson plan. I have written disciplinary action letter; and/or I have written a program review or operational review report; and/or I have written an institutional supplement; and/or I have written an objection statement to the employment of an outside applicant; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan; and/or I have written a justification to modify duties in an existing position description; and/or I have written a justification for a pay incentive. I have written a response to arbitration hearing request; and/or I have written MOUs/settlement agreements; and/or I have written an adverse action letter; and/or I have written a program review response; and/or I have written a pre-employment waiver for applicants outside the guidelines of acceptability; and/or I have written a re-programming justification. None of the above. 5 The Human Resource Officer is responsible for evaluating and interpreting laws, policies, and procedures relative to Human Resource program areas.&nbsp; The work involves evaluating program areas and policies with precision and confidence.&nbsp; He/she is required to discuss conclusions with the Executive staff and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as Cost Center Manager for multiple areas in human resource such as HR operations and incentive awards; and/or I have evaluated recruitment or selection criteria at a hard to fill location; and/or I have planned, organized, directed, or coordinated the personnel, or labor relations activities of an organization; and/or I have managed/created retention registers during a department’s manpower reorganization. I have administered the voluntary leave transfer program; and/or I have assessed policy compliance for HR programs such as incentive awards, contract security or annual time keepers training standards; and/or i have evaluated position management reports and organizational charts to ensure accurate balance of positions, I have planned, supervised, and coordinated work activities of subordinates and staff relating to employment, compensation, labor relations, and employee relations; and/or I have evaluated proposed national policy and provided comments; and/or I have reviewed and made recommendations to institution supplements. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).