Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Factory Operational Accountant communicates with the Prime Business Office, Central Office UNICOR, procurement and warehouse personnel, department heads, institution correctional staff, business office personnel and inmates, and institution executives such as the Warden. Other contacts include business managers and plant controllers at other UNICOR locations, Centralized Accounts Receivables and Payables.&nbsp; In addition, he/she may have contact with interagency contacts such as the Department of Treasury, General Services Administration, General Accounting Office and other agencies in resolving problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to routine telephone or inmate inquires; and/or I have discussed issues with regional staff to complete routine assignments; and/or I have trained new co-worker on office procedures; and/or I have verified status of accounts with vendors. I have conducted inmate safety talks; and/or I have contacted vendors to schedule raw materials for delivery; and/or I have explained institution regulation to a new staff member. I have delivered A&O lectures to inmates; and/or I have assisted co workers with processing work; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with co-workers/peers in other departments. None of the above. 4 The Factory Operational Accountant must communicate financial documents and reports to the Prime Business Office and Central Office in maintaining the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations. He/she prepares cost analysis thru written reports detailing financial impact.&nbsp; Also, he/she prepares technical documentation, monthly financial narratives, and develops instructions, contractual correspondence, and memorandums. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have drafted cover memos for the monthly balance and internal control outlining the status of the accounting operation; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have prepared responses to Controller’s request for data or audit data calls. I have assisted with composing memorandums to other department heads; and/or I have assisted with preparing monthly property management reports; and/or I have composed debit memos to vendors. I have documented telephone logs with vendors; and/or I have prepared job instructions for inmates; and/or I have prepared incident reports. None of the above. 5 The Factory Operational Accountant will apply generally accepted accounting principles and procedures, theories, concepts, and practices to evaluate production performance and assist in the formulation of pricing structures. He/she will utilize cost accounting standards to ensure accuracy of manufacturing and job order costing, cost allocation and performance measurements.&nbsp; He/she will interpret financial reports and implement accounting standards for Federal agencies.&nbsp; He/she will identify any discrepancies and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources to the Prime Business Manager, Senior Operations Managers/Warden and Central Office.&nbsp; He/she will provide management reports detailing projected operating levels for sales, earnings, overhead, inventory levels and capital expenditures for the remote factory location. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of General Accepted Accounting Principles to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices; and/or I have provided staff assistance to another office. I have reviewed obligations for accuracy in accordance with written policies; and/or I have reconciled job cost variances from the standard; and/or I have reconciled general ledger accounts balances to the open item reports; and/or I have prepared the monthly balance and internal control check. I have researched accounting issues for management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have transferred costs of B&F projects to the S&E appropriation and closed B&F projects in accordance with written policies; and/or I have applied the Federal Travel Regulations in settling travel vouchers. None of the above. 6 The Factory Operational Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to evaluate cost accounting data for planning, control, and decision‑making purpose for his/her Local Factory Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and was able to determine the action that is necessary to correct errors; and/or I have submitted prior period adjustments identifying what corrective action was needed. I have completed the job cost variance report and submitted it to the factory manager; and/or I have ensured that all payments were accurate and processed on time in accordance with prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have reviewed open payables to determine their validity; and/or I have reconciled real property, personal property, and the related depreciation accounts to subsidiary records; and/or I have prepared an income statement to reflect financial standing at year end. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check by making necessary corrections. None of the above. 7 The Factory Operational Accountant must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in the warehouse areas.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback on office projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to subordinates in resolving accounting problems and warehouse problems; and/or I have prioritized own work in meeting deadlines. I have prioritized work flow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have monitored staff/inmates to determine if supervisory instructions were followed; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to staff in resolving basic work issues; and/or I have discussed performance and pay determinations to inmate work. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Factory Operational Accountant communicates with the Prime Business Office, Central Office UNICOR, procurement and warehouse personnel, department heads, institution correctional staff, business office personnel and inmates, and institution executives such as the Warden. Other contacts include business managers and plant controllers at other UNICOR locations, Centralized Accounts Receivables and Payables.&nbsp; In addition, he/she may have contact with interagency contacts such as the Department of Treasury, General Services Administration, General Accepted Accounting Principles and other agencies in resolving problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted inmate safety talks; and/or I have contacted vendors to schedule raw materials for delivery; and/or I have explained institution regulation to a new staff member. I have delivered A&O lectures to inmates; and/or I have assisted co-workers with processing work; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with co-workers/peers in other departments. I have provided guidance to subordinates on processing work; and/or I have briefed supervisor on status of workload; and/or I have coordinated an office project; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with factory manager or other department head. None of the above. 4 The Factory Operational Accountant must communicate financial documents and reports to the Prime Business Office and Central Office in maintaining the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations. He/she prepares cost analysis thru written reports detailing financial impact.&nbsp; Also, he/she prepares technical documentation, monthly financial narratives, and develops instructions, contractual correspondence, and memorandums. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a monthly cost analysis, profit margin analysis, breakeven analysis, and/or property management report; and/or I have composed memorandum to other department heads; and/or I have prepared performance evaluations for subordinates. I have assisted with composing memorandums to other department heads; and/or I have assisted with preparing monthly property management reports; and/or I have composed debit memos to vendors. I have documented telephone logs with vendors; and/or I have prepared job instructions for inmates; and/or I have prepared incident reports. None of the above. 5 The Factory Operational Accountant will apply generally accepted accounting principles and procedures, theories, concepts, and practices to evaluate production performance and assist in the formulation of pricing structures. He/she will utilize cost accounting standards to ensure accuracy of manufacturing and job order costing, cost allocation and performance measurements.&nbsp; He/she will interpret financial reports and implement accounting standards for Federal agencies.&nbsp; He/she will identify any discrepancies and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources to the Prime Business Manager, Senior Operations Managers/Warden and Central Office.&nbsp; He/she will provide management reports detailing projected operating levels for sales, earnings, overhead, inventory levels and capital expenditures for the remote factory location. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of Accepted Accounting Principles to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices; and/or I have provided staff assistance to another office. I have determined breakeven point at current and projected sales level; and/or I have calculated ratios to measure efficiencies, and/or determined general ledger account amounts were valid; and/or I have analyzed monthly financial reports; and/or I have monitored inmate payroll for unusual trends. I have researched accounting issues for management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have transferred costs of B&F projects to the S&E appropriation and closed B&F projects in accordance with written policies; and/or I have applied the Federal Travel Regulations in settling travel vouchers. None of the above. 6 The Factory Operational Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to evaluate cost accounting data for planning, control, and decision‑making purpose for his/her Local Factory Office. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and was able to determine the action that is necessary to correct errors; and/or I have submitted prior period adjustments identifying what corrective action was needed. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check by making necessary corrections. I have identified errors in the Financial Management System report and took corrective action; and/or I have reviewed general ledger to ensure account balances are correct; and/or I have compiled Accounting report statements by eliminating discrepancies; and/or I have determined costs used to forecast expenditures for quarter or year; and/or I have resolved cash differences identified in the proof check; and/or I have identified trend in late payments from vendors and took corrective action. None of the above. 7 The Factory Operational Accountant must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in the warehouse areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed current accounting operations and warehouse operations to develop new procedures or make adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have performed long range planning and goal setting for the warehouse operation; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to due date. I have provided feedback on office projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to subordinates in resolving accounting problems and warehouse problems; and/or I have prioritized own work in meeting deadlines. I have prioritized work flow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).