Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience: Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, with major study or at least 24 semester hours in subjects directly related to the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Phlebotomists have daily contact with medical staff, other professional staff, administration, support services, and inmates, and must be able to communicate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with ancillary departments to gather and exchange information pertaining to patient care; and/or I have communicated with outside vendors on laboratory services to coordinate scheduling and services; and/or I have consulted with supervisor as to the acceptability of a donor. I have participated in interviewing donors to secure information in accordance with established donor criteria; and/or I have reported pertinent patient care information to a supervisor (i.e., specimen collection times or pending orders). I have conveyed critical and routine lab reports to requesting medical staff; and/or I have provided patient education on collecting non-blood specimens to the patient or medical staff; and/or I have provided pre-and post-specimen collection instructions to the patient or other medical staff collecting non-blood specimens. I have communicated information on the status of patient specimen collections; and/or I have communicated information on laboratory schedules to inmates or staff; and/or I have answered the phone in the lab or clinic and responded to basic questions or directed to appropriate personnel. None of the above. 3 Phlebotomists must possess a basic knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and medical terminology in order to carry out the various venipuncture tasks assigned by physicians, mid-level practitioners, nurses, and medical technologists. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed advanced medical terminology courses; and/or I have experience using medical terminology in positions, such as medical transcriptionist, medical office assistant, nursing assistant, surgical technician, or sterile supply technician, within a community medical center, outpatient clinic, treatment center, or diagnostic center. I have utilized a knowledge of medical root words, prefixes, and suffixes to complete recurring inquiries; and/or I have completed a basic medical terminology class; and/or I have translated common medical abbreviations and terms for patients and families; and/or I have used a medical dictionary or medical spell check software for accuracy and/or to discriminate between similar terms or abbreviations. I have supplied accurately spelled terms and understood medical abbreviations as needed by medical staff; and/or I have explained information which contained medical terms from other sources, including the Internet, support organizations, etc.; and/or I have transcribed medical orders without assistance. I have transcribed orders under supervision; and/or I have completed on-the-job training experience which provided general familiarity with medical terms; and/or I have completed course work at the college or junior college level which included the use of terms related to medicine (i.e., anatomy, physiology, human biology). None of the above. 4 Phlebotomists are responsible for obtaining blood specimens through the use of various venipuncture techniques. They are required to furnish specimen collection containers and instructions to patients on collecting specimens for urine and feces. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have successfully performed venipuncture using a butterfly needle; and/or I have successfully performed venipuncture using vacutainers (i.e., vacuum tubes); and/or I have successfully performed venipuncture using a needle and syringe; and/or I have supplied a specimen collection container and instructed patients on collecting specimens for urine and feces; and/or I have utilized draw regulations to obtain specimens when drawing multiple specimens during a single venipuncture. I have obtained blood samples from areas other than choice vein sites (hand, forearm, etc.); and/or I have collected blood using a heel stick or from scalp veins with butterfly needle. I have assisted in performing a finger stick to check hemoglobin; and/or I have assisted in performing finger stick to check glucose levels; and/or I have assisted in successfully obtaining blood specimens from patients in standard vein sites; and/or I have assisted in collecting various specimens for routine or waived testing after demonstrating competence in collection techniques. I am certified by the American Society of Clinical Pathologists (ASCP), the American Medical Technologists (AMT), or the American Association of Medical Personnel (AAMP); and/or I have handled patient adverse reactions during phlebotomy (i.e., fainting, development of hematoma, convulsions, vomiting and nausea). None of the above. 5 Phlebotomists are responsible for processing, storage, and shipment of various laboratory specimens. Tasks will be accomplished utilizing appropriate specimen collection containers for each test. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected proper specimen containers for unusual or obscure tests; and/or I have prepared specimens requiring special handling for shipment; and/or I have properly prepared and stored frozen specimens for later processing; and/or I have received certified training in packaging and shipping of infectious materials. I have performed processing and storage for lipids, liver profiles or CBC (complete blood count); and/or I have conducted CLIA (Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act waived testing; and/or I have provided patient with proper specimen collection equipment, such as 24 hour urine containers, hemoccult slides, etc. I have assisted with blood processing and storage for CBC, lipids, liver profiles, etc.; and/or I have identified and used appropriate blood collection tubes (blue top, purple top, speckled top(SST); and/or I have assisted in conducting CLIA waived testing. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).