Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 Accounting Technicians have contact with vendors, co-workers, subordinates, institution department heads, personnel at other institutions, higher level administration within the Bureau, Department of Justice auditors, inmates, general public, with local and, although infrequent, foreign government officials. They provide and exchange information regarding a variety of accounting transactions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exchanged information with regulatory personnel to effect financial policy implementation; and/or I have contacted vendors in regards to any billing discrepancies identified prior to payment; and/or I have provided in-house training on accounting procedures to staff; and/or I have contacted staff to explain policy in regards to travel advances and travel settlements. I have assisted in responses to inmate's inquiry regarding his/her account; and/or I have explained account information to a department head; and/or I have contacted vendor to request copy of invoice or proof of delivery. I have responded to questions regarding travel vouchers; and/or I have resolved discrepancies when vendors did not receive payment; and/or I have explained account activity reports to inmates. None of the above. 3.2 Accounting Technicians must be able to effectively communicate in writing. They may have contact with vendors, inmates, staff, department heads, administrative staff, and others where it is necessary to respond in writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an inmate incident report; and/or I have prepared a written response to an Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have prepared monthly sales reports. I have prepared written correspondence from a vendor questioning an accounting policy for higher-level signature; and/or I have prepared memorandums identifying and recommending procedural changes to improve operations of the department/office; and/or I have prepared monthly status reports with memorandum of explanation. I have prepared a written lesson plan for training sessions; and/or I have participated in a program or operational review and documented specific findings in writing; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings or other gatherings. None of the above. 3.3 Accounting Technicians must have a knowledge of disbursements and fund accounting methods used in maintaining balancing and closing sub-accounts in an accounting system. They must adhere to the standards of the U.S. Treasury Department, the General Accounting Office, Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Justice, and the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have compiled and examined reports to confirm transactions were accepted in the system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly into the system. I have ensured proper guidelines were followed; and/or I have adhered to the Prompt Payment Act when submitting payments; and/or I have reconciled and balanced a variety of cash, draft, and credit card accounts; and/or I have conducted transactions with other various Federal Government agencies utilizing Treasury's Inter-governmental Payment and Collection System. I have frequently researched regulations, procedures and guidelines and interpreted those for on-the-job use; and/or I have reconciled various account balances to U.S. Treasury records monthly; and/or I have ensured obligation amounts (accounts payable) did not exceed available fund balances; and/or I have adjusted open accounts payable balances as corresponded payments were made; and/or I have referenced Federal Appropriations Law and the U.S. Code for legality of expenditures. None of the above. 3.4 Accounting Technicians must apply a variety of accounting procedures in preparing, processing, and maintaining accounts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed Standard General Ledger account balances for accuracy; and/or I have prepared transactions for reporting on the Standard Form (SF-224); and/or I have conducted internal audits of department's accounting records; and/or I have determined all applicable Prompt Payment Act provisions were properly invoked. I have certified payment vouchers for correct data and funding sources; and/or I have prepared billings to public, state, and government agencies; and/or I have conducted follow-up on all past due billings and initiated debt collection procedures, when necessary. I have analyzed obligation documents to determine proper obligation type; and/or I have ensured adequate funding for all obligations and payments; and/or I have advised management when funding inadequacies are noted. None of the above. 3.5 Accounting Technicians are responsible for processing accounting documents and maintaining files. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained established case files, adding topics/files as needed; and/or I have organized a small office records/filing system; and/or I have maintained pending files for various functions; and/or I have sorted and distributed incoming source documents. I have established new record system which enabled co-workers/supervisors to retrieve files easily; and/or I have processed large volumes of transactions, vouchers, and purchase orders; and/or I have established, organized, and maintained concise obligation records in a manner which allowed the information to be easily retrieved; and/or I have maintained controls for all expenditures. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have maintained case files in a law office; and/or I have maintained and monitored open accounts payable files, processed and filed payment vouchers. None of the above. 3.6 Accounting Technicians enter, correct, and retrieve accounting data using the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) as well as several other on-line systems. They also use various office equipment such as the personal computer, adding machine, and other small equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized agency computer programs; and/or I have used various menus to retrieve accounting documents; and/or I have adjusted accounts maintained in the system. I have maintained an established database to track information; and/or I have prepared and interpreted financial reports for management; and/or I have developed detailed spreadsheets using LOTUS and/or other computer software; and/or I have created data bases for tracking expenditures and allotments. I have utilized spell checker, macro, and file manager in Word Perfect; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).