Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to conduct program planning activities.** Performed program planning activities to ensure program operations operate smoothly and tasks are completed on time and according to plan. These activities include: 1) formulating and executing strategic and annual plans in accord with federal guidelines, 2) applying a wide range of qualitative and/or quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of complex short and long-range goals for professional, technical scholarly or other specialized programs; 3) conducting comprehensive evaluations of ongoing programs to ensure the division meets its stated goals and identifies areas where programmatic efficiency can be improved; 4) aligning budget documentation with strategic planning and performance plans, 5) providing analysis and statistics of operational programs, 6) preparing reports, 7) developing administrative policies, and 8) assessing and summarizing program goals, their attainment and related activities. Answer to this question is required As a primary job function completed ALL of the above program planning activities. As a primary job function completed at least FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above program planning activities. As a primary job function completed at least FOUR (4) of the above program planning activities. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to identify and analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions.** Assessed and recommended solutions regularly related to management or organizational assignments, processes, and activities. Consulted with managers, staff, and stakeholders on the situation, facts, program goals, approaches, and recommended solutions. Answer to this question is required Individually ASSESSED and RECOMMENDED solutions to variety of problems and issues, including complex and/or sensitive problems and issues with major impact on the productivity, performance, or efficiency of an AGENCY/ORGANIZATION. Recommendations were frequently successfully adopted. As a member of a team, ASSESSED and RECOMMENDED solutions to complex and/or sensitive problems and issues such as workflow bottlenecks that reduce throughput, with major impact on the productivity, performance, or efficiency of an AGENCY/ORGANIZATION. Recommendations were frequently successfully adopted. As a member of a team, ASSESSED and RECOMMENDED solutions to routine problems and issues, such as developing FAQs for customers, with some impact on the productivity, performance, or efficiency of an AGENCY/ORGANIZATION. Recommendations were frequently successfully adopted. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation or liaison services.** Worked well and cooperated with others, including those holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals. Established and fostered effective working relationships and information networks with business and industry associations and stakeholders at all levels. This included the ability to serve as a liaison with managers and staff to provide consultation and guidance for planning and program performance assessment. Answer to this question is required Built and maintained professional relationships with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders inside and outside the organization. Led or played a key role in conducting briefings and presentations for managers and staff. Served as a liaison for an agency/organization to provide consultation and guidance. Built and maintained professional relationships with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders, inside and outside the organization. Led or played a key role in conducting briefings and presentations for managers and staff. Served as a liaison for an agency/organization to provide consultation and guidance. Built and maintained professional relationships with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders inside and outside the organization. Assisted in conducting briefings and presentations for managers and staff. Served as a liaison for an agency/organization to provide consultation and guidance to others. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to manage administrative functions in an organization. Managed and performed management support activities or administrative functions in an organization including: 1) participating extensively in programs, activities and operations of an organization, 2) participating in discussions, meetings, and projects concerning the programs, operations, and policies of an organization, 3) performing long-range analysis and planning and recommending implementation of program and policies, 4) proposing methods to improve quality and efficiency of programs, and 5) developing criteria for evaluating the effectiveness of various programs. Answer to this question is required Independently performed a full range of administrative functions and managed program activities for an organization including ALL of the above. Independently performed a wide range of administrative functions and managed program activities for an organization including THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above. Assisted with a wide range of administrative functions and managed program activities for an organization including AT LEAST TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced written products related to administrative functions using standard rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation. These documents includes: 1) memoranda, 2) ad hoc reports, 3) management reports, 4) procurement documentation, 5) meeting minutes, 6) policies and/or standard operating procedures, 7) statistical and summary reports, 8) human resources documentation, such as awards and personnel action recommendation (PAR) justifications), 9) emails to provide guidance and instructions, and 10) justifications for purchases and budget requests. Answer to this question is required Has experience independently producing ALL of above documents in an administrative setting. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Has experience producing EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above documents in an administrative setting. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Has experience producing SEVEN (7) of the above documents in an administrative setting. Created tables, graphs, charts, and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).