Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position includes the following: (1) Providing strategic direction and guidance for planning and execution of facility, renovation and new construction programs, projects and activities; (2) Serving as administrative supervisor and providing direction to a team of project managers responsible for items such as: project planning, program planning and management, real estate matters, engineering and architecture, and select energy and electrical systems; (3) Providing oversight and administrative direction for program/project, staff and resources; and (4) Working with Congressional leadership and/or oversight and appropriation committees, Members of Congress, congressional staff, management, staff, external agencies and professional organizations to advance program objectives. 2 Which certifications or registrations do you hold? Answer to this question is required A Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) A Registered Architect (RA) certification or a Professional Engineering certification A Certified Construction Manager (CCM) A Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification A Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification None of the above 3 Do you have experience overseeing design and execution of facility, renovation and new construction programs, projects and activities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have experience serving as technical expert and/or advisor on programs, regulations and contracting procedures for new construction and renovation, projects?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 5 Do you have experience executing complex special projects and studies&nbsp;with wide impact upon organizational structure, policy, processes, operations, fiscal control and economy? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume.&nbsp;Maximum length of 1000 characters. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Which of the following statements best describe your experience leading contractors and professional staff (i.e., Architects, Engineers, Project Managers, Designers etc.) in the execution of planning, studies and design projects? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience leading and/or facilitating strategic planning meetings? Answer to this question is required I have assisted senior staff facilitate strategic planning meetings (e.g., documented decisions, compiled data). I have independently facilitated strategic planning meetings with senior managers. I have independently facilitated strategic planning meetings with high level executives. I have led and/or independently facilitated strategic and capital planning meetings with stakeholders, planning and development organizations, state government officials, Members of Congress, Congressional committees, and local political and community representatives. None of the above 9 Which statements describe your experience performing financial analysis? Answer to this question is required Analyzed appropriation legislation for impact on programs/funds. Performed analyses to make recommendations on the reallocation of funds between funded programs and program development. Analyzed funds to identify trends that could result in surplus or shortage of funds. Performed financial cost-benefit analyses for organizational program planning. Conducted reviews and coordinated with Budget Officers concerning appropriations submissions to legislative bodies. None of the above 10 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards, ensured a mutual understanding of the standards, and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Resolved complex functional and operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Managed the organizational units budget and workload. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. Implemented organizational development programs to facilitate change and communication. Provided guidance and leadership to ensure support for equal employment opportunity (EEO) goals and requirements. Developed training programs for employees to support organizational objectives and staff development. None of the above. 11 Select the types of teams you have led to accomplish team goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Multi-discipline teams Teams composed of individuals with varying levels of skill Multi-level teams (e.g., subordinates, peers, and supervisors) Multi-organizational teams None of the above 12 Which of the following analytical activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Performed qualitative or quantitative analysis based on a prescribed methodology (e.g. running standardized reports). Researched and evaluated different options to identify outcomes, risks and challenges. Developed measurement standards or metrics for an audit/evaluation. Described findings from a study/audit/evaluation that you conducted. Developed recommendations as a result of findings you discovered. Reviewed an audit/evaluation/study report for completeness, accuracy, fairness, and conformity to applicable standards. None of the above. 13 Which response best describes your highest level of experience planning and organizing work in difficult circumstances (e.g., tight deadlines, changing resources)? Answer to this question is required I have not planned and organized work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and completing my own work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of staff`s work within my unit in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by cross-functional project teams in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by multiple teams in different functions under my control in difficult circumstances. 14 Please&nbsp;provide an example of how you resolved a difficult and complex technical, project management or organizational problem using innovative and original approaches. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Do you have&nbsp;experience interacting and briefing executive and/or other high-level decision makers on vital program issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 17 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience making oral presentations? Answer to this question is required I have presented briefings/status updates at recurring project/program meetings. I have presented strategic information (e.g., program plans/goals, budget decision impacts) to organizational leadership. Analyzed funds to identify trends that could result in surplus or shortage of funds. Performed financial cost-benefit analyses for organizational program planning. Conducted reviews and coordinated with Budget Officers concerning appropriations submissions to Congress or state legislative body. None of the above 18 Select the documents you have independently written. Answer to this question is required Reports of Findings Cost-benefit studies White papers Slide content (e.g., PowerPoint presentations) Bulletins Articles in research team journals Technical and non-technical report versions on the same issue Market research studies Scopes of Work or Task Orders Business correspondence (e.g., letters, emails) None of the above 19 For which audiences have you written professional documents (e.g., reports, white papers)? Answer to this question is required Peers Supervisors Subordinates External clients Oversight committees None of the above 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Executive search firm Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. Grade: 15 No questions specified. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.