Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 2 Which of the following best describes your ability to manage teams? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in managing teams. I have applied this ability to work situations. I have no formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have had experience applying this ability to work situations. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 3 Which of the following leadership responsibilities have you performed in a work unit or as part of a team assignment? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Allocating resources. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Delegating responsibilities. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers and or customers? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 5 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. 6 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience with applying the nationality laws of the United States? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 8 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience with providing advice, guidance, and consultation based on results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 Which option BEST reflects your highest level of experience applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have no experience applying program management techniques. I have completed formal education or training on this topic. However, I have not performed this task on the job. I have experience establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and drafting performance measures and plans. This work was performed under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience implementing and reporting on the status of program management initiatives and performance measures that were established by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures, and identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. 11 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in assessing complex issues and using that information to develop solutions? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in this area. I have done this under supervision. I have done this as a member of a team. I have done this independently. I have supervised others. 12 Please select the option that most closely reflects your experience in providing regulatory interpretation and guidance to staff members: Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. 13 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 14 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied your knowledge of policy, legislation, and practices to assess overall effectiveness in programs: Answer to this question is required Inspection Program reviews / evaluations Audits Qualitative analyses Adjudicating administrative actions or processes None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.