Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 In which of the following trades do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Sheet Metal Electrician Insulating Masonry Wood Crafting Carpentry Pipefitting Cement Finishing Materials Handling Forklift Operating Painting Plastering None of the Above 2 Do you possess a Forklift Operator's License? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the responses that demonstrate your ability to perform repetitive, routine tasks independently. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Uses equipment, resources and work time in an efficient and effective manner. Approaches challenging tasks with a “can-do” attitude. Prioritizes tasks by importance and deadline. Discerns what is crucial from what is just urgent. Adjusts priorities as situations change. Focuses time and effort on key tasks. Groups related tasks to be more efficient. Easily transitions between tasks and picks up where left off when interrupted. Meets and exceeds deadlines. None of the above. 5 Have you assisted others by gathering tools for assignments and preparing work sites? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Have you cleaned tools or equipment under the direction of a senior employee or journeyman? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which of the following task(s) have you performed to assist a senior employee or journeyman? Answer to this question is required I have prepared work sites (e.g., placed tarps over areas/items to be protected). I have retrieved materials and tools. I have cleaned the work site. I have disposed of work site debris (e.g., masonry scrap, dirt). I have disposed of hazardous materials. None of the above 8 How have you assisted trades or building maintenance staff to complete tasks safely? Answer to this question is required Set up ladders Set up scaffolding Held materials steady for installation / cutting Cleaned work sites upon completion of maintenance work None of the above 9 Select the responses that demonstrate your communication skills. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Reads and follows specific job-related information; i.e., work orders, written instructions, material / equipment labels, etc. Reads and follows general information related to work assignments; i.e., articles in trade publications, technical / instructional manuals, memos, letters, e-mails, reports. Writes legibly and speaks clearly to ensure messages are understood. Listens carefully to understand; asks questions to clarify. None of the above. 10 How have you used instructions in your work? Answer to this question is required To understand how to perform my job To explain how to perform tasks To learn new processes To maintain my safety None of the above 11 Do you know how to operate hand and power tools? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 12 Which hand tools have you used? Answer to this question is required Screwdrivers Nut drivers Wrenches Sockets Mallet Chisel None of the above 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.