Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate all of the following: (a) Comprehensive knowledge and experience with architecture, historic preservation, and/or engineering concepts, methods and procedures; (b) Performing design, technical reviews, and project management on building projects from planning and programming through construction, commissioning and project closeout; (c) Providing design development and technical guidance for professional Architect/Engineer firms; (d) Assessing compliance with construction standards, preparing full construction drawings and specifications, and preparing scope of work documents and statements of work; and (e) Serving as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) or equivalent for construction projects. 3 Do you have experience providing oversight and serving as technical expert and advisor on design, construction, commissioning and contracting procedures for major construction&nbsp;and renovation projects ? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you simultaneously managed three or more design projects that were in different stages of development? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 I have led the coordination effort of architectural and multiple engineering disciplines during design development. Answer to this question is required True False 6 Which design activities have you performed for a historically significant or monumental building or structure? Answer to this question is required Developed technical specifications. Developed designs within preservation policy guidelines. Developed general provisions (e.g., client needs, restrictions and limitations). Reviewed cost estimates associated with the design. Performed quality control checks. None of the above 7 Which of the following professional services do you regularly perform on projects? Answer to this question is required Serve as the technical lead on complex projects related to building envelope performance, including roofs, walls, fenestration, waterproofing, and air/moisture barriers. Manage and oversee forensic investigations of envelope failures, moisture intrusion, and construction defects. Conduct field assessments, testing, and condition surveys of building envelope components. Prepare and review technical reports, repair recommendations, specifications, and construction documents. Provide peer review services for envelope design on new construction projects. Provide building enclosure consulting, commissioning, and design and construction phase services for new building projects. Provide building enclosure investigations and assessments for existing buildings and provide remedial repair designs and construction phase services. 8 As part of your current position, do you perform hygrothermal analysis on building enclosures utilizing modeling software such as THERM or WUFI? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the documents you have independently prepared. Answer to this question is required Architectural design for a historic building Hygrothermal analysis on new construction Hygrothermal analysis on existing buildings Hygrothermal analysis on monumental historic buildings Building Enclosure Commissioning (BECx) reports Forensic investigation reports Design of repairs to existing structures Enclosure condition assessments Air barrier testing reports Diagnostic water testing reports Infrared thermography reports Chamber testing reports None of the above 10 Which certifications, registrations, coursework or degrees do you hold? Answer to this question is required Registered Architect (RA) certification Historic Preservation degree (Bachelors, Masters or PHd) Certified Building Enclosure Commissioning Process Provider (CBECxP) Building Commissioning Association Certified Commissioning Professional (BCxA CCP) IIBEC Registered Building Enclosure Consultant (RBEC) Building Enclosure Commissioning Process Provider (BECxP) None of the above 11 In which stages of design have you managed a team in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents Construction administration None of the above 12 I have developed designs for historically significant monumental buildings while protecting the historic fabric. Answer to this question is required True False 13 Do you have experience with the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties or experience in a federal historic preservation office or state historic preservation office? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Select all of the tasks that you have performed in a professional setting in compliance with preservation policies and standards such as the Secretary of the Interior&rsquo;s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties or similar. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Approved contract documents Responsible for the preparation of contract documents Assisted in the preparation of contract documents None of the above 15 Select the historically significant facilities for which you have created designs. Answer to this question is required State capitols or the U.S. Capitol Masonry buildings or buildings with stone facades Museums Monuments or sculptures Churches or cathedrals Residential buildings Libraries Government facilities Industrial facilities None of the above 16 Select the statements that describe your experience interacting with people in stressful situations. Answer to this question is required I have de-escalated or calmed hostile individuals to facilitate communication and completion of work. I have built rapport with anxious and uncommunicative individuals to elicit needed information. I have accomplished assigned tasks when collaborating with interdisciplinary teams, each with opposing points of view or agendas. I have discussed sensitive information with argumentative parties. None of the above. 17 Select the documents you have independently written. Answer to this question is required Reports of Findings Cost-benefit studies White papers Slide content (e.g., PowerPoint presentations) Bulletins Articles in research team journals Technical and non-technical report versions on the same issue Market research studies Scopes of Work or Task Orders Business correspondence (e.g., letters, emails) None of the above 18 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational-wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Elected officials and their staff Executives, Division Directors, Corporate Officers, or Senior Managers External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 19 Which activities have you communicated orally? Answer to this question is required Made presentations to elected officials or oversight committees Explained project limitations and restrictions to a group that was not supportive of your position or project Made presentations to professional organizations at a national conference Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Presented a project at a public meeting Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.