Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Applicants must possess a degree which includes or is supplemented by at least 24 semester hours appropriate to the position to be filled in one or a combination of the areas described below.&nbsp; At least one course must have been from (1) or (2) below.&nbsp; For guidance counselor positions, a college or university-sponsored practicum in counseling is also required. Tests and measurement: &nbsp;Study of the selection, evaluation, administration, scoring, interpretation, and uses of group and individual aptitude, proficiency, interest, and other tests. Adult education: &nbsp;Study of the adult as a learner, teaching-learning theories for adults, models and procedures for planning, designing, managing, and evaluating adult learning activities. Educational program administration: &nbsp;Study of the foundation and methods in organizing for adult and continuing education programs. Curriculum development or design: &nbsp;Study of the principles and techniques for development of curricula for adult or vocational education programs. Teaching methods: &nbsp;Study of teaching strategies and learning styles of the adult learner. Guidance and counseling: &nbsp;Study of the purposes and methods in counseling and guidance, the role of the counselor in various settings, approaches to counseling, and the uses of tests in the counseling situation. Career planning: &nbsp;Study of career development, learning activities, systems, approaches, program coordination, use of educational and community resources, and vocational counseling systems. Occupational information: &nbsp;Study of theories of occupational choice and vocational development and their application to the guidance process. Identification and utilization of various types of occupational information and resources. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The School Counselor must possess excellent oral communication skills for effective delivery of services to Federal inmates within the facility. Additionally, these skills are required for collaboration purposes with fellow staff members in all Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) institutions, Regional Offices&rsquo;, Central Office administration, and in partnerships with external providers including community supports. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated with outside organization or individuals in an effort to enhance classroom instruction and delivery of services; and/or I have briefed management or faculty on information related to educational needs; and/or I have served as a liaison for external partners or organization; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution. I have presented an overview of program area to staff; and/or I have discussed issues with union leaders, advisory boards, or community action groups; and/or I have provided oral updates in faculty/team meetings with supervisors; and/or I have addressed student social-emotional concerns appropriately; and/or I have discussed student progress with a team of educational professionals. I have delivered training to a team of school counselors, faculty, or group of administrators; and/or I have made presentations at international, national, or regional conference/convention; and/or I have served as lead representative to a large taskforce on work-related issues; and/or I have lectured at a post-secondary institution. None of the above. 6 The School Counselor must possess excellent writing skills to develop a curriculum for school counseling classes, create lessons for these classes, document inmate progress for educational-career-technical needs, and correct inmate's writing errors. He/she must also be able to effectively communicate in writing with all levels of Bureau staff and outside agencies as well as to create materials for the institution&rsquo;s Job Fairs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed existing documents and submitted recommended editorial changes to clarify/further define policies and procedures; and/or I have independently created draft program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures for higher level review and approval; and/or I have submitted recommendations for consideration to update an instructional program statement, to conform with policy changes; and/or I have proposed student testing procedures; and/or I have made modifications to existing curricula/lesson plans. I have prepared memoranda using a pre-established format; and/or I have completed individual school counseling reports; and/or I have written referrals to external agencies for student needs; and/or I have assisted in reviewing work prepared by others for format, content, and grammatical accuracy. I have independently developed a curriculum program of instruction for a school district or school; and/or I have developed in-depth, year-long lesson plans; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement; developed an instructional evaluation program; and/or I have prepared a report summarizing the results of a project; and/or I have developed student testing procedures; and/or I have developed program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures; and/or I have published an article on school counseling in a professional journal or academic text. None of the above. 7 The School Counselor is expected to develop and implement a comprehensive school counseling program that applies academic achievement strategies to inmate&rsquo;s education plans, which meet individual goals for career-technical opportunities. He/she works collaboratively with fellow Education staff members to gather, review, analyze, and interpret academic data for counseling planning purposes and is responsible for the administration, interpretation, and documentation of data results for career interest surveys. He/she also develops individual career counseling programs, based on national standards, that lead to institutional career-technical training opportunities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated with both internal and external partners to develop, improve, or expand school counseling services; and/or I have led, advocated, and collaborated with multiple external agencies to facilitate educational and career-technical opportunities for students; and/or I have designed and delivered training on the development and organization of a highly effective school counseling program at a professional conference or national/state/local educational consortium; and/or I have created a school counseling program based on American School Counseling Association (ASCA) standards and practices that yielded successful outcomes. I have met with administrative team to review and analyze current school counseling practices; and/or I have contracted with a nearby agency for clinical support; and/or I have collaborated with educators to provide their expertise in areas of specific career-technical trades to students; and/or I have partnered to design a series of school counseling classes to be offered each semester. I have worked with a team of both internal and external partners to develop, improve, or expand school counseling services; and/or I have acted as a liaison with community partners to provide ancillary services to the school counseling program; and/or I have collaborated with an external agency to facilitate educational, social-emotional-behavioral, and career-technical supports for students; and/or I have developed an organizational framework for school counseling services, including setting priorities, determining materials required, and creating short and long-term goals; and/or I have completed progress monitoring of a district or school-wide school counseling program. None of the above. 8 The School Counselor possesses the training and expertise necessary for appropriate and supportive interactions with incarcerated individuals requiring academic and career-technical field assistance. He/she is trained and proficient in providing a multitude of guidance-related services to inmates, including those focused on educational supports and career-technical goals, while using sound judgment and highly focused interpersonal relations. He/she is expected to develop and maintain professional relationships with both inmates and staff that are sensitive to individual differences. He/she addresses social-emotional-behavioral needs through the referral process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered training developed by others on a school-based counseling team; and/or I have completed social-emotional-behavioral checklists, reporting results and other technical information to lead counselor or administrator; and/or I have used discretion when reviewing counseling case reports with others by sharing only necessary information; and/or I have referred students to a lead counselor for intervention; and/or I have located key agencies and contact personnel to facilitate working relationships. I have developed, directed/delivered training on interpersonal skill development to a large group of professionals at a conference in a state, regional, or district level; and/or I have led a district-wide or school-based program on interpersonal skill development; and/or I have modeled appropriate behavior and professional interactions for staff and students; and/or I have trained others on use of maintaining privacy and confidentiality when discussing student cases with others, inclusive of intellectual and achievement testing results as well as social-emotional-behavioral indices; and/or I have led district-wide training/actual application of de-escalation in crisis or other stressful situation. I have developed/delivered training on interpersonal skill development to a small group of professionals at a district or school level; and/or I have led a school-based program on interpersonal skill development; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to staff/students; and/or I have maintained privacy and confidentiality when discussing student cases with others, inclusive of intellectual and achievement testing results as well as social-emotional-behavioral indices; and/or I have attended other department meetings as a representative for school counselors and provided input; and/or I have led school-based training/actual application of de-escalation in crisis or other stressful situation. None of the above. 9 The School Counselor is expected to apply academic achievement strategies, assess inmate career interests and aptitudes, interpret career inventory and other testing results, and provide guidance for career-technical educational goals that lead to reentry success for individual learning styles. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed curriculum and supplemental activities for integration of content and perspectives; and/or I have taught principles of training regarding family and educational backgrounds, cultures, and beliefs at a faculty meeting or to students; and/or I have created supplemental materials on how to motivate students to obtain optimal educational performance; and/or I have participated in an academic research team for school-based curricula for decision-making purposes; and/or I have independently developed and tailored behavioral control techniques for students. I have delivered instructor-skills training at a conference, state, or district/school-wide level to teach others in evidence-based best practices for delivery of student supports; and/or I have illustrated and instructed fellow professionals in the development of curriculum and supplemental activities for integration of content and perspectives within a large group format; and/or I have trained others in the administration of a variety of assessment tools as well as scoring and interpretation; and/or I have taught training at conference, state, or district/school-wide level regarding family and educational backgrounds, cultures, and beliefs; and/or I have provided training on how to motivate students to obtain optimal educational performance; and/or I have led academic research teams for district or school based curricula decision-making purposes. I have used curriculum and supplemental activities for integration of content and perspectives in a classroom; and/or I have assisted in delivering training regarding family and educational backgrounds, cultures, and beliefs to students; and/or I have provided motivational tips to students, to obtain optimal educational performance; and/or I have encouraged open discussions of various cultures/backgrounds during instructional classes. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).