Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of Copyright Law. ** Demonstrated knowledge of copyright law, other aspects of Title 17. Answer to this question is required Experience demonstrating considerable knowledge of primarily domestic complex copyright issues. Examples: Worked for 3 or more years in a professional capacity primarily providing advice and assistance regarding copyright matters; served as a guest speaker on copyright program; and/or published an article in a law review or professional journal on copyright law; participated in proceeding before the Copyright Office or Congress addressing proposed legislative changes, regulatory changes, or novel policy questions. Experience demonstrating knowledge of primarily domestic copyright issues. Provided advice and assistance regarding copyright matters. Examples: Handled multiple matters requiring substantive knowledge of copyright law; significant coursework or scholarly research on copyright law. Experience demonstrating knowledge of the principles and concepts of copyright issues. Examples: Studied copyright law in law school; worked on some matters requiring substantive knowledge of copyright law; provided advice and assistance regarding copyright and/or intellectual property issues. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Conduct Legal Research. ** Performed in-depth legal research and analyzed and evaluated information to prepare written materials on legal or policy issues. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience researching and preparing complex documents and materials on intellectual property issues (copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets). Examples: Drafted materials incorporating significant legal research involving novel copyright issues, such as briefs in copyright litigation; comments for Copyright Office rulemaking; papers, memoranda, or articles analyzing novel issue of copyright law; policies and procedures implementing or interpreting copyright legislation Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on intellectual property issues (copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets). Examples: Drafted materials incorporating significant legal research involving intellectual property issues, such as briefs in intellectual property litigation; comments in government agency rulemaking; papers, memoranda, or articles analyzing novel legal issues; policies and procedures implementing or interpreting legislation. Experience researching and preparing documents and materials on legal issues. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to Convey Legal Analysis and Information Orally through Briefings, Meetings, and Presentations. ** Participated in oral discussion of legal issues. This includes targeting the amount, form, level of detail and content of information based on the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Presented analysis on or significantly contributed to discussions of a variety of copyright issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous to discuss and clarify legal and policy matters related to copyright law. Examples include: giving presentations or significantly contributing to meetings with government, private sector, colleagues, clients and general audiences. Presented analysis on a variety of intellectual property issues primarily to audiences within an organization but also to government agencies and private and/or public sector audiences. Presented analysis on a variety of legal issues only to audiences within an organization. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Work Collaboratively with Others. Developed and maintained professional relationships with a variety of individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships with officials or executives in organization or industry. Examples include: Played significant role in team achieving important organizational goals, played significant role in building consensus among stakeholders with differing views on complex issues, played significant role in resolving dispute among adverse parties through negotiation of mutually agreeable outcome, led committee of professional organization. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with members of organization or professional community. Examples include: contributed to team achieving organizational goals, contributed to building consensus among stakeholders with differing views on issues, contributed to resolving dispute among adverse parties through negotiation of mutually agreeable outcome, played significant role in committee of professional organization. Experience developing and maintaining professional or academic relationships. Examples include: Worked as part of a team to accomplish a shared goal, participated in professional organization, assisted professor with academic research or article. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Write/Communicate in Writing. Drafted clear, cogent, well-organized legal and policy documents. Examples include: 1) legal memos, 2) position papers, 3) analytical studies, 4) documents reviewing and analyzing statutes and regulations, 5) court briefs, and 6) policy and procedural documents. Answer to this question is required Experience preparing complex legal documents and materials with minimal supervisory direction and edits. Experience preparing complex legal documents and materials with moderate supervision and edits. Experience preparing legal documents and materials with significant supervisory direction and edits. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS Grade: 14 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of Copyright Law. ** Demonstrated knowledge of copyright law, other aspects of Title 17. Answer to this question is required Experience demonstrating considerable knowledge of the current status of copyright issues and a wide range of primarily domestic complex copyright issues. Examples: Worked for 5 or more years in a professional capacity primarily providing advice and assistance regarding copyright matters; published articles on copyright law in law reviews or professional journals; participated in multiple proceedings before the Copyright Office or Congress addressing proposed legislative changes, regulatory changes, or novel policy questions. Experience demonstrating considerable knowledge of primarily domestic complex copyright issues. Examples: Worked for 3 or more years in a professional capacity primarily providing advice and assistance regarding copyright matters; served as a guest speaker on copyright program; and/or published an article in a law review or professional journal on copyright law; participated in proceeding before the Copyright Office or Congress addressing proposed legislative changes, regulatory changes, or novel policy questions. Experience demonstrating knowledge of primarily domestic copyright issues. Provided advice and assistance regarding copyright matters. Examples: Handled multiple matters requiring substantive knowledge of copyright law; significant coursework or scholarly research on copyright law. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Conduct Legal Research. ** Performed in-depth legal research and analyzed and evaluated information to prepare written materials on legal or policy issues. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience researching and preparing complex copyright legal documents and materials. Examples: Drafted materials incorporating significant legal research involving novel copyright issues, such as briefs in copyright litigation; comments for Copyright Office rulemaking; papers, memoranda, or articles analyzing novel issue of copyright law; policies and procedures implementing or interpreting copyright legislation. Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on intellectual property issues (copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets). Examples: Drafted materials incorporating significant legal research involving intellectual property issues, such as briefs in intellectual property litigation; comments in government agency rulemaking; papers, memoranda, or articles analyzing novel legal issues; policies and procedures implementing or interpreting legislation. Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on difficult and emerging legal issues. Examples: Experience writing materials incorporating significant legal research, such as litigation briefs, papers, memoranda, or articles analyzing legal issues; reviews or summaries of legislation. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to Convey Legal Analysis and Information Orally through Briefings, Meetings, and Presentations. ** Participated in oral discussion of legal issues. This includes targeting the amount, form, level of detail and content of information based on the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Led discussions of a variety of copyright issues of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous to discuss and clarify legal and policy matters related to copyright law. Examples include giving multiple presentations to or leading multiple meetings with government, private sector, colleagues, clients and general audiences. Presented analysis on or significantly contributed to discussions of a variety of copyright issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous to discuss and clarify legal and policy matters related to copyright law. Examples include: giving presentations or significantly contributing to meetings with government, private sector, colleagues, clients and general audiences. Presented analysis on a variety of intellectual property issues primarily to audiences within an organization but also to government agencies and private and/or public sector audiences. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Work Collaboratively with Others. Developed and maintained professional relationships with a variety of individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships with senior officials or executives in organization and industry. Examples include: Led team to achieve important organizational goals, built consensus among stakeholders with differing views on complex issues, resolved dispute among adverse parties through negotiation of mutually agreeable outcome. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with officials or executives in organization or industry. Examples include: Played significant role in team achieving important organizational goals, played significant role in building consensus among stakeholders with differing views on complex issues, played significant role in resolving dispute among adverse parties through negotiation of mutually agreeable outcome, led committee of professional organization. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with members of organization or professional community. Examples include: contributed to team achieving organizational goals, contributed to building consensus among stakeholders with differing views on issues, contributed to resolving dispute among adverse parties through negotiation of mutually agreeable outcome, played significant role in committee of professional organization. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Write/Communicate in Writing. Drafted clear, cogent, well-organized legal and policy documents. Examples include: 1) legal memos, 2) position papers, 3) analytical studies, 4) documents reviewing and analyzing statutes and regulations, 5) court briefs, and 6) policy and procedural documents. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience preparing complex copyright legal documents and materials independently. Experience preparing complex legal documents and materials with minimal supervisory direction and edits. Experience preparing complex legal documents and materials with moderate supervision and edits. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).