Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: All applicants MUST electronically upload copy of their license at the time you apply. The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license. Failure to provide this documentation will result in loss of consideration for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Chief Psychologists must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological&nbsp;and neuropsychological tests, and make inferences about inmates' behavior in order to effectively counsel and treat them. They also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological screening tests, personality inventories like the MMPI, intelligence tests like the WAIS, suicide risk assessments, or the Strong-Campbell Vocational Interest Inventory to determine training/educational programs; and/or I have written psychological reports which included assessment results; and/or I have conducted research that included psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research projects by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklists, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology, or vocational assessment; and/or I have participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 5 Chief Psychologist must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substance abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made treatment recommendations for clients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have received training in at least two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy, eye movement desensitization and reprocessing, or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews, or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have participated in research that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. None of the above. 6 Chief Psychologist must have knowledge of mood disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand inmate behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of their&nbsp; major duties is counseling inmates individually and in a group setting.&nbsp; They must have knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group; and/or I have provided treatment in a modified therapeutic community setting. I have provided individual and group psychotherapy with the goal of meeting specific client needs using a variety of treatment techniques such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, or psycho-educational; and/or I have developed client specific treatment plans with measurable treatment goals; and/or I have conducted research that included the evaluation of treatment effectiveness as part of the study; and/or I have provided treatment in a modified therapeutic community setting. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychodynamic, psycho-educational, or feedback; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have provided group treatment in a modified therapeutic community format; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. None of the above. 7 Chief Psychologist must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. They&nbsp;are&nbsp;also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed supervisory duties by serving in an acting capacity as a first line supervisor; and/or I have participating in a management mentoring program; and/or I have reviewed the work of others to ensure compliance with policy as part of leading a work group to achieve a specific objective; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of your own workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have advised others on the correct interpretation of policy; and/or I have assisted co-worker in completing tasks; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit office objectives. I have served as a leader of an organization directing others; and/or I have completed assignments in a timely fashion with minimal supervision; and/or I have served as the leader of a major project or task that involved the cooperation of others outside of his/her own work group. None of the above. 8 The Chief Psychologist plays an important role during emergencies in an institution by resolving conflicts, and assisting in crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. None of the above. 9 Chief Psychologist is responsible for directing several specialty areas in psychology services, such as Forensic Psychology, Drug Abuse Treatment Programs, APA Psychology Internship Program, Challenge Program, Skills Program, BRAVE Program, or Sex Offender Management Program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in two or more specialty program areas in psychology, such as substance abuse treatment, forensics, biofeedback, sex offender treatment, female offenders, health psychology, behavioral medicine, intellectual disability, or Fetal Alcohol Syndrome/Fetal Alcohol Exposure; and/or I have worked in a setting that provided assessment or treatment in a specialty area in psychology; and/or I have assisted with conducting research in a specialty area in psychology. I have completed a practicum in a specialty area of psychology; and/or I have conducted a research project in a specialty area in psychology; and/or I have reviewed existing procedural protocols for treating mentally ill, impulsive/aggressive, or developmentally delayed individuals. I have acted as a Drug Abuse Program Coordinator; and/or I have supervised graduate students as they conducted assessments or provided treatment in a specialty treatment program; and/or I have conducted research on a specialty treatment program. None of the above. Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: All applicants MUST electronically upload copy of their license at the time you apply. The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license. Failure to provide this documentation will result in loss of consideration for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Chief Psychologists must be able to conduct interviews, administer, and interpret psychological&nbsp;and neuropsychological tests, and make inferences about inmates' behavior in order to effectively counsel and treat them. They also must consult with staff regarding inmate management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have conducted at least three different types of psychological assessments with inmates such as: personality inventories like the MMPI, intelligence tests like the WAIS, psychopathy tests like the PCL-R, instruments to assess the potential for violence like the VRAG, neurological tests, diagnostic instruments, or a suicide risk assessment. As a doctoral level psychologist, I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. As a licensed psychologist, I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological screening tests, personality inventories (MMPI), intelligence tests (WAIS), suicide risk assessments or the Strong-Campbell Vocational Interest Inventory to determine training/educational programs; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have written psychological reports which included assessment results. As a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have written a comprehensive report of an inmate, for a third party, which included assessment results; and/or as a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have conducted research with a criminal population which included using psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or as a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments. As a licensed psychologist, I have conducted research that included psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments. None of the above. 5 Chief Psychologists must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for disorders such as anxiety, depression, thought disorders, substance abuse disorders, suicidal ideation, self-injurious behavior, and personality disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As a licensed psychologist in a correctional setting, I have recommended treatment interventions for inmates such as cognitive-behavioral treatment for depression, biofeedback treatment for anxiety or other disorders, systematic desensitization treatment for phobic disorders, drug treatment, or sex offender treatment. As a doctoral level psychologist, I have assisted in the treatment of clients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive intervention, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation. As a licensed psychologist, I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have scored psychological tests and wrote result summaries; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. As a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have made recommendations for treatment that included behavioral management of an inmate such as placement of a disruptive inmate in a more secure area, recommended management techniques to non-mental health staff for managing inmates exhibiting self-injurious behavior, advised correctional staff that an inmate be closely monitored for self-destructive potential, or made recommendations for the management and treatment of inmates with a history of violence and/or disruptive behavior. As a doctoral level psychologist, I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews, or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have participated in research that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. As a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have conducted research to assess the effectiveness of treatment interventions with inmates; and/or as a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have used knowledge of organicity and psychotropic medications as a basis for referring inmates to medical staff for treatment. None of the above. 6 Chief Psychologists must have knowledge of mood disorders, personality disorders, psychosis, and psychopathology to understand inmate behavior and provide appropriate interventions. One of their major duties is counseling inmates individually and in a group setting. They must have knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality and mental health disorders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. As a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have conducted individual and group psychotherapy with inmates using various treatment techniques such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, reality therapy, or Dialectic Behavior Therapy; and/or as a licensed psychologist working in a correctional setting, I have used a case management approach to providing treatment such as: involving family, job coaches, education accommodations, housing, or interfacing with health services. As a doctoral level psychologist, I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I co-facilitated a psychotherapy group; and/or as a doctoral level psychologist, I have provided treatment in a modified therapeutic community setting. As a licensed psychologist, I have provided individual and group psychotherapy with the goal of meeting specific client needs using a variety of treatment techniques such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, or psycho-educational; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have developed client specific treatment plans with measurable treatment goals; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have conducted research that included the evaluation of treatment effectiveness as part of the study; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have provided treatment in a modified therapeutic community setting. As a licensed psychologist, I have provided treatment to inmates in a high security setting; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I have provided clinical supervision for subordinate treatment providers in a correctional setting; and/or as a licensed psychologist, I conducted research with an inmate population that included the evaluation of treatment effectiveness as part of the study; and/or as a licensed psychologist in a correctional setting, I have provided treatment in a modified therapeutic community setting. None of the above. 7 Chief Psychologists must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. They are also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a leader of an organization directing others; and/or I have completed assignments in a timely fashion with minimal supervision; and/or I have served as the leader of a major project or task that involved the cooperation of others outside of their own work group. I have provided clinical supervision to another psychologist seeking licensure; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established an improvement plan; and/or I have set priorities to accomplish specific tasks for subordinates; and/or I have developed a group of subordinates into a cohesive team. I have performed supervisory duties by serving in an acting capacity as a first line supervisor and participating in a management mentoring program; and/or I have reviewed the work of others to ensure compliance with policy as a part of leading a work group to achieve a specific objective; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of my own workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have enhanced a subordinates' potential for achieving their career goals; and/or while serving as a supervisor, I have improved the performance of a department or work unit, and conducted formal employee performance evaluations; and/or I have worked with people outside of own department/workgroup to achieve a unit or agency goal. None of the above. 8 Chief Psychologists play an important role during emergencies in an institution by resolving conflicts, and assisting in crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have coordinated a suicide prevention program; and/or I have conducted confrontation avoidance with non-compliant inmates; and/or I have used communication skills to calm a disruptive inmate; and/or I have reported a dangerous inmate to correctional staff; and/or I have received training as a hostage negotiator and acted in that capacity; and/or I have trained staff in crisis management techniques. None of the above. 9 Chief Psychologists are responsible for directing several speciality areas in psychology services, such as Forensic Psychology, Drug Abuse Treatment Programs, APA Psychology Internship Program, Challenge Program, Skills Program, BRAVE Program, or Sex Offender Management Program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted as a Drug Treatment Program Coordinator; and/or I have supervised graduate students as they conducted assessments or provided treatment in a specialty treatment program; and/or I have conducted research on a specialty treatment program. I have supervised one or more subordinate treatment specialists; and/or I have provided clinical supervision to treatment staff in a specialty program; and/or I have exhibited leadership skills by establishing and meeting unit/agency objectives. I have worked in two or more specialty program areas in psychology, such as substance abuse treatment, forensics, biofeedback, sex offender treatment, female offenders, health psychology, behavioral medicine, intellectual disability, or Fetal Alcohol Syndrome/Fetal Alcohol Exposure; and/or I have worked in a setting that provided assessment or treatment in a speciality area in psychology; and/or I have assisted with conducting research in a speciality area in psychology. I have created a new specialty treatment program including the development of admission criteria, curricula, and training of treatment staff; and/or I have coordinated a pilot study of a specialty treatment program; and/or I have conducted research on the effectiveness of a specialty treatment program. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).