Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1)&nbsp;Managing and executing complex facilities operations or modernization programs for large historic or commercial facilities; (2)&nbsp;Providing supervision and leadership in guidance to engineering-architect and facility operations and maintenance staff; (3)&nbsp;Planning, formulating, and executing operating and capital budgets; preparing budget justifications; and (4)&nbsp;Representing an organization on technical matters at high-level meetings concerning impacts on normal building operations. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the professional discipline(s) for which you possess qualified experience. Answer to this question is required Architect Engineer None of the above 2 Which best describes your budget experience?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required No direct experience. Tracked costs or assisted with budget reports. Independently managed budgets for projects or programs. Planned, justified, and executed multimillion-dollar operating and capital budgets, including preparing written justifications for senior or Congressional approval. 3 Which technical areas have you directly managed? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Electrical systems Fire alarm/life safety systems Elevators/Subway systems Audio Visual/Electronics systems Garage operations HVAC/Plumbing/Maintenance None of the above 4 Please&nbsp;describe your experience formulating and executing facilities operation programs of a complex of large buildings or monumental facilities to include budget development, strategic and projects planning and execution, process improvement and organizational change. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Describe your experience developing and executing long-term maintenance or capital renewal plans. How did you use data, CAFM, or similar tools to drive efficiency and reduce deferred maintenance?&nbsp; Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Have you been directly responsible for ensuring compliance with OSHA, fire/life safety codes, emergency preparedness, or environmental regulations in facility operations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments for a staff of over 10 supervisors and employees. Developed performance standards, ensured a mutual understanding of the standards, and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Resolved complex functional and operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Managed an organizational unit/s with a multi-million dollar program budget and workload. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational operational and strategic objectives. Implemented organizational development programs to facilitate change and communication. Provided guidance and leadership to ensure support for equal employment opportunity (EEO) goals and requirements. None of the above. 8 Do you&nbsp;have experience coordinating the work of the program team to accomplish assigned tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations Developed and managed a project budget None of the above 10 Do you have experience managing a construction project within a campus that has multiple buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Do you have experience providing advisory services and making recommendations to senior level officials and/or oversight committees on facilities and program management for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 How have you exhibited confidence and professional diplomacy while effectively relating to people at all levels both internally and externally? Answer to this question is required Demonstrating an understanding of the interrelationships, roles and responsibilities of your organization. Developing and maintaining professional relationships. Using knowledge of the organizational culture in making decisions and perceives the impact and implications of such decisions. Identifying when issues need to be escalated to higher authorities and effectively alerts appropriate officials. Demonstrating sensitivity to surroundings and acts accordingly in conversations. Perceiving organizational and political sensitivities and acts accordingly. Understanding the political environment, management priorities, staff roles and responsibilities, and grasps external factors impacting the organization. Ensuring positive outcomes and mission achievement. Understanding corporate priorities, cultural norms and unwritten rules for success. None of the above. 13 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering an organizational wide project/program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Local Agencies Federal Agencies External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership None of the above 14 Please&nbsp;provide an example of how you resolved a difficult and complex technical, project management or organizational problem using innovative and original approaches. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.