Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 [56003] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [70518] Choose the statement that best fits how you meet the specialized experience and/or education for this Marine Surveyor, GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience with ship operations, maintenance and repair including oversight of shipyard work for United States ships AND experience supporting technical elements of ship repair and maintenance including providing inputs to schedules and budgets, and ensuring compliance with contract requirements AND experience in utilizing computerized ship maintenance tracking and reporting systems including data entry, and generating reports. This experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements above. 3 [70402] What is your level of experienc in reading and interpreting blueprints and making modifications to indicate&nbsp; installations, conversions, or repairs if necessary? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have minimal level of education, training, or experience in reading and interpreting blueprints to make modifications, but I have not applied it on the job. I have experience in reading and interpreting blueprints and have knowledge to modify them to indicate installations, conversions, or repairs, if necessary, with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have experience in reading and interpreting blueprints and making modifications to indicate installations, conversions, or repairs, if necessary, as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience in reading and interpreting blueprints to make modifications to indicate installations, conversions, or repairs, if necessary, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. 4 [70403] Do you have experience inspecting ships undergoing repairs and other work involving commercial/military shipyard or marine repair facilities to observe work in progress to assure compliance with specifications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [2357] Choose the statement that best describes your experience in inspecting, certifying, and noting deficiencies while performing ship maintenance in accordance with written procedures. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 6 [2358] Choose the statement that best describes your experience with preventive maintenance programs, which includes the accomplishment of regulatory body inspections and surveys in conjunction with the accomplishment of preventative maintenance procedures. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 7 [4338] Choose the statement that best described your knowledge and experience related to ship operations. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 8 [4339] Choose the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience related to marine engineering. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 9 [70401] What is your level of experience in preparing progress reports of ship repair and maintenance? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have minimal level of education, training, or experience preparing progress reports of ship repair and maintenance, but I have not applied it on the job. I have experience in preparing status reports and findings of ship repair and maintenance as a regular part of a job with minimal errors and with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have experience in preparing status reports and findings of ship repair and maintenance as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did, I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have experience in preparing status reports and findings of ship repair and maintenance as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. 10 [2492] Choose the statement that best describes the level of knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment system. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment gained through significant management and leadership positions in a maritime or military or military school environment. Proven ability to develop and implement a performance and assessment system. Sound knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment gained through management and leadership positions. Demonstrated ability to develop and implement a performance and assessment system. Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment gained through management and leadership positions. Experience that relates to the development and implementation of a performance and assessment system. None of the above. 11 [4694] Select the software application(s) or programming language(s) in which you are proficient accomplishing routine analyses, reports, and queries. (Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the software or language`s functionality/capabilities.) Answer to this question is required Databases (Microsoft Access, others) Word processing (Microsoft Word, others) Spreadsheets (Microsoft Excel, others) Presentation software (PowerPoint, others) Query/Programming languages (Visual Basic, others) None of the above 12 [6403] Select the statement(s) that best describes your level of experience or knowledge of maritime industry practices, operations, shipbuilding and ship maintenance, including safety, occupational health and environmental problems common with the maritime industry and other related industrial and commercial activities. Answer to this question is required I have such extensive shipboard, shipyard or maritime industry-related experience that I am considered an expert in this area and am often consulted by the organization and have trained others. I have shipboard, shipyard or maritime industry-related experience in this area. I have experience as an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) inspector. I have worked for a non-maritime industrial organization that allowed me to gain experience in this area. I am familiar with shipboard safety, health and environmental hazards and how they can be mitigated. I have no maritime industry-related experience with regard to safety, occupational health and environmental issues. Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [70407] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience in inspecting ships undergoing repairs and other work involving commercial shipyard or marine repair facilities, ensuring compliance with specifications? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [70408] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience with preparing dry dock schedules, cyclic maintenance requirements, and other marine maintenance planning? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [70409] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience assisting with personnel matters related to marine maintenance, such as operations, maintenance, and supply? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [1790] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience with Quality Assurance systems. Answer to this question is required I have developed quality control plans. I have developed and monitored quality control plans. I have administered quality control plans. I have developed and monitored complex quality control plans involving contractor sampling and testing, independent verification by the acceptance agency and independent assurance sampling and testing. I have developed and monitored complex quality control plans involving contractor sampling and testing, independent verification by the acceptance agency, independent assurance sampling and testing and have participated in the development of statistical acceptance plans. I have developed and monitored complex quality control plans involving contractor sampling and testing, independent verification by the acceptance agency, independent assurance sampling and testing and have developed statistical acceptance plans. I have had little or no experience with Quality Assurance systems. 6 [1930] Select the response that best describes your experience ensuring that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR). Answer to this question is required I have not had experience ensuring that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR). I have completed education or training in ensuring that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR), but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have ensured that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have ensured that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have ensured that contractors comply with contract requirements and procurement regulations under Federal Acquisitions Regulations (FAR) routinely as a major part of my work. I have supervised or trained others in performing this task and/or others have consulted me for expert assistance in performing this task. 7 [2358] Choose the statement that best describes your experience with preventive maintenance programs, which includes the accomplishment of regulatory body inspections and surveys in conjunction with the accomplishment of preventative maintenance procedures. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 8 [4338] Choose the statement that best described your knowledge and experience related to ship operations. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 9 [4339] Choose the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience related to marine engineering. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 10 [2357] Choose the statement that best describes your experience in inspecting, certifying, and noting deficiencies while performing ship maintenance in accordance with written procedures. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 11 [6403] Select the statement(s) that best describes your level of experience or knowledge of maritime industry practices, operations, shipbuilding and ship maintenance, including safety, occupational health and environmental problems common with the maritime industry and other related industrial and commercial activities. Answer to this question is required I have such extensive shipboard, shipyard or maritime industry-related experience that I am considered an expert in this area and am often consulted by the organization and have trained others. I have shipboard, shipyard or maritime industry-related experience in this area. I have experience as an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) inspector. I have worked for a non-maritime industrial organization that allowed me to gain experience in this area. I am familiar with shipboard safety, health and environmental hazards and how they can be mitigated. I have no maritime industry-related experience with regard to safety, occupational health and environmental issues. 12 [427] Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience with budget management and execution. Answer to this question is required I have prepared formal budget request packages. I have developed and justified a multi-year budget for an organization. I have explained and defended budget requests before senior agency management officials. I have served as a funds administrator and authorized obligations for at least 6 continuous months. I have been responsible for budget execution and monitoring for at least 6 continuous months including reconciling commitments, obligations and expenditures. None of the above 13 [2492] Choose the statement that best describes the level of knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment system. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment gained through significant management and leadership positions in a maritime or military or military school environment. Proven ability to develop and implement a performance and assessment system. Sound knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment gained through management and leadership positions. Demonstrated ability to develop and implement a performance and assessment system. Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques associated with performance evaluation and assessment gained through management and leadership positions. Experience that relates to the development and implementation of a performance and assessment system. None of the above. 14 [4694] Select the software application(s) or programming language(s) in which you are proficient accomplishing routine analyses, reports, and queries. (Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the software or language`s functionality/capabilities.) Answer to this question is required Databases (Microsoft Access, others) Word processing (Microsoft Word, others) Spreadsheets (Microsoft Excel, others) Presentation software (PowerPoint, others) Query/Programming languages (Visual Basic, others) None of the above 15 [57074] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience with procurement and/or contract services. Answer to this question is required Communicated contractual issues/obligations/technical requirements with: supervisor, resource management, contracting officer, contract specialist, and/or contractor. Performed technical review of contractor proposals as a member of a technical evaluation panel. Performed requirements of a quality assurance surveillance plan (QASP), and ensured corrective actions are initiated through proper channels. Inspected and accepted contractor's invoice of completed work for the government. Processed invoice payments through an electronic system. Completed performance evaluations for the Contractor Performance Reporting System (CPAR) or equivalent reporting system. Submitted Purchase Requisitions (PR). Served as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) on a contract valued over $5,000,0000 per year. None of the above Grade: 13 1 [342] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [64868] Do you have at least one year of experience maintaining and repairing ocean-going vessels, surveying and inspecting such vessels for the purpose of classification appraisal, determinations of general conditions, and fitness for operations? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [64869] Do you have at least one year of experience in commercial marine surveying, shipboard engineering officer services, or shipyard management such as providing guidance on maintenance and repair functions, policy and procedures, compliance with regulatory requirements, instructions, and standards governing the conduct of conditions surveys, inspections, dry dockings, doc trials, and sea trials? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [70406] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience in advising on operational, maintenance and supply personnel matters relating to marine maintenance problems? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [4339] Choose the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience related to marine engineering. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 6 [6403] Select the statement(s) that best describes your level of experience or knowledge of maritime industry practices, operations, shipbuilding and ship maintenance, including safety, occupational health and environmental problems common with the maritime industry and other related industrial and commercial activities. Answer to this question is required I have such extensive shipboard, shipyard or maritime industry-related experience that I am considered an expert in this area and am often consulted by the organization and have trained others. I have shipboard, shipyard or maritime industry-related experience in this area. I have experience as an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) inspector. I have worked for a non-maritime industrial organization that allowed me to gain experience in this area. I am familiar with shipboard safety, health and environmental hazards and how they can be mitigated. I have no maritime industry-related experience with regard to safety, occupational health and environmental issues. 7 [1471] Select all of the statement(s) that describe your experience in contract administration activities: Answer to this question is required I have prepared preliminary cost estimates for work to be contracted or performed by external resources. I have prepared Independent Government Estimates (IGE) for work to be contracted. I have had at least 40 hours of training on federal contract administration. I have developed statements of work for externally delivered survey work. I have negotiated price on task orders. I am certified as a Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) for federal contracts. I have administered construction contracts. I have inspected the work of contractors for compliance. I have prepared contract documents (specifications, contract requirements, drawings, etc.) I have administered task orders or service contracts. I have administered formal agreements. None of the above. 8 [7257] Select the statement that best describes your contract management experience. Answer to this question is required I have not been involved in contract management. I have assisted in the development of scopes of work or request for proposals (RFPs) for contracts and reviewed technical proposals. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs at the direction of others and reviewed technical and cost proposals. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs for contracts and been the lead responsible for review of technical and cost proposals and made recommendations on the selection of a contractor. I have been responsible for managing the work and quality of performance on one or more contracts. I have been/am responsible for managing all aspects of several contracts at one time including preparing RFPs, establishing criteria for reviewing proposals, reviewing proposals making recommendations on selection, managing contract schedules, ensuring quality products and monitoring costs. 9 [58632] Select the project management or Contracting Officers Representative (COR) functions you have performed as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Identified need for contractor support services Prepared and/or reviewed contract statement(s) of work Estimated needed resources Developed Government cost estimates Coordinated with Acquisitions Office on procurement guidance Monitored contractor performance Assisted in preparation of a procurement package Performed market research Established evaluation criteria Participated on proposal evaluation panel Performed inspections of completed work and/or services Monitored the work of contractors to ensure performance adhered to the statements of work and cost Provided technical guidance to the contractor Reviewed monthly reports and drafts of interim and final reports Determined need for and recommended contract modifications, as necessary Processed contract invoices Provided contractor feedback and performed quality control of contractor performance Devised and described the required sequence of tasks Certified by Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) as COR Completed COR training courses None of the above. 10 [2357] Choose the statement that best describes your experience in inspecting, certifying, and noting deficiencies while performing ship maintenance in accordance with written procedures. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 11 [2358] Choose the statement that best describes your experience with preventive maintenance programs, which includes the accomplishment of regulatory body inspections and surveys in conjunction with the accomplishment of preventative maintenance procedures. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 12 [1790] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience with Quality Assurance systems. Answer to this question is required I have developed quality control plans. I have developed and monitored quality control plans. I have administered quality control plans. I have developed and monitored complex quality control plans involving contractor sampling and testing, independent verification by the acceptance agency and independent assurance sampling and testing. I have developed and monitored complex quality control plans involving contractor sampling and testing, independent verification by the acceptance agency, independent assurance sampling and testing and have participated in the development of statistical acceptance plans. I have developed and monitored complex quality control plans involving contractor sampling and testing, independent verification by the acceptance agency, independent assurance sampling and testing and have developed statistical acceptance plans. I have had little or no experience with Quality Assurance systems. 13 [427] Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience with budget management and execution. Answer to this question is required I have prepared formal budget request packages. I have developed and justified a multi-year budget for an organization. I have explained and defended budget requests before senior agency management officials. I have served as a funds administrator and authorized obligations for at least 6 continuous months. I have been responsible for budget execution and monitoring for at least 6 continuous months including reconciling commitments, obligations and expenditures. None of the above 14 [57074] Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience with procurement and/or contract services. Answer to this question is required Communicated contractual issues/obligations/technical requirements with: supervisor, resource management, contracting officer, contract specialist, and/or contractor. Performed technical review of contractor proposals as a member of a technical evaluation panel. Performed requirements of a quality assurance surveillance plan (QASP), and ensured corrective actions are initiated through proper channels. Inspected and accepted contractor's invoice of completed work for the government. Processed invoice payments through an electronic system. Completed performance evaluations for the Contractor Performance Reporting System (CPAR) or equivalent reporting system. Submitted Purchase Requisitions (PR). Served as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) on a contract valued over $5,000,0000 per year. None of the above 15 [15712] Do you have experience compiling and/or working with preventive maintenance programs/maintenance histories in order to budget and develop plans for projects based on this information? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 [4338] Choose the statement that best described your knowledge and experience related to ship operations. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 14 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 14.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 14.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 14.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).