Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department of Education Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14 - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal government. I do not meet this requirement. 2 All grades -Choose the one answer that best describes you. Answer to this question is required I am under the age of 37 prior to the opening date of this announcement. I am currently in or have previously held a criminal investigator type position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 3 How many times have you testified in a grand jury, trial or administrative proceeding? Answer to this question is required 0-3 4-7 8-11 12 or more 4 Select the investigative task(s) you have performed regularly in support of administrative, criminal or civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Interviewed suspects and witnesses Searched for physical or documentary evidence Collected and preserved physical evidence Examined records None of the above 5 Select the investigative task(s) you have performed independently. Answer to this question is required Identified issues Determined the method of work to resolve outstanding issues Identified specific steps to conduct the investigation Analyzed alternatives Negotiated differences Resolved differences of opinion regarding approaches None of the above 6 Select the investigative task(s) you have performed independently in support of criminal and civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Developed information sources/leads Evaluated allegations of criminal or civil wrongdoing Developed investigative work plans Conducted investigative interviews Completed affidavits for arrest or search warrants Issued subpoenas or court orders Participated on an investigative team None of the above 7 Select the type(s) of financial documents you have analyzed to identify regulatory inconsistencies and/or fraud. Answer to this question is required Bank statements Account ledgers Journal entries Financial applications, records or reports Electronic data from financial databases None of the above 8 Select the task(s) you have performed independently or on a team in developing an investigation. Answer to this question is required Analyzed information to identify possible waste, fraud or abuse Developed leads Conducted investigative interviews Coordinated an investigation with law enforcement personnel from other organizations None of the above 9 Select the investigative task(s) you have supervised in support of criminal and/or civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Participated on an investigative team Coordinated an investigation with other law enforcement agencies Served as a lead investigator on complex investigations Determined the scope and direction of an investigation Executed search and arrest warrants Collected and preserved physical evidence Examined records Presented factual findings to prosecutors or other decision making officials None of the above 10 Establish priorities for team members or employees. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Select the supervisory tasks you have performed. Answer to this question is required Assigned work to employees Monitored progress of investigations Provided technical assistance to employees Set priorities for employees or team members None of the above 12 Select the task(s) you have performed regularly in support of criminal and civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Participated on a team to conduct an investigation Coordinated an investigation with other law enforcement agencies Worked closely with individuals and groups to gain a consensus Persuaded others to accept your findings, recommendations or alternative viewpoints Presented factual findings to prosecutors or other decision making officials None of the above 13 Select the recurring contact(s) you have experience maintaining in order to negotiate an investigative plan. Answer to this question is required Investigation team members Supervisors Program staff Federal representatives from outside your agency Representatives from other public or private entities None of the above 14 Select the types of document(s) you have written as a regular part of your experience. Answer to this question is required Investigation plans Memoranda of Interview Investigative findings Supporting documents for affidavits or subpoenas Final investigative reports None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Notices FOIA Privacy Accessibility Security Information Quality Inspector General Whitehouse.gov USA.gov Benefits.gov Regulations.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).