Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Curriculum Developer communicates in writing with a variety of people, including management at all levels of the organizational hierarchy, staff and individuals outside of the organization.&nbsp; Effective writing skills are required in order to address areas of common interest or concerns regarding development of curricula, programs and/or performance standards.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for preparing technical documents free of errors, and written in a manner which is easily understood by the intended audience.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed existing lesson plans and submitted recommended editorial changes to clarify and/or further define policy and procedure; and/or I have independently created draft training program statements, internal policy, or standard operating procedures for higher level review and approval; modified existing curricula/lesson plans; and/or I have submitted recommendations for consideration to update instructional program statement to conform with policy changes; and/or I have developed proposed student testing procedures. I have prepared correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance evaluations; and/or I have prepared reports for agency staff such as statistical material for decision and informational purposes; and/or I have investigated and wrote incident reports on infractions committed by inmates. I have researched and developed a body of information that is utilized to train employees, modify policy and/or procedure, or influence executive level staff to implement change to national policy; and/or I have submitted a technical training document or executive staff paper which impacted personnel throughout the agency; and/or I have independently developed advanced curricula that is easy to understand; and/or I have prepared agency reports pertaining to training initiatives; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement. None of the above. 3 The Curriculum Developer designs, develops, and evaluates learner-center instructional designs and curricula for various target audiences, ranging from introductory training to advanced training.&nbsp; The training is designed to teach job requirements and enhance employee performance.&nbsp; Therefore, he/she must be knowledgeable of various training strategies, including needs assessments and evaluation of training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and performed needs assessments for non-introductory training; and/or I have facilitated a workgroup responsible for the development of training objectives that targeted a national audience or impacted management objectives; and/or I have developed instructional methodologies and provided instruction which resulted in improved staff performance; and/or I have developed a complex or controversial training program and facilitated the training for a national forum. I have evaluated institution or local level training programs and provided recommendations which improved training and staff participation; and/or I have reviewed training needs assessments of others and recommended training based on data collected; and/or I have facilitated an institution level training course based on results of a program deficiency identified during an audit. I have assisted in facilitating training or instructional events at the institution and/or local level; and/or I have participated in performance based scenarios and/or mock training exercises; and/or I have created a training presentation utilizing Microsoft programs or similar program. None of the above. 4 The Curriculum Developer is responsible for collecting data from a variety of sources to include subject matter experts (SMEs), needs analysis reports and studies, reports, test data and evaluative surveys.&nbsp; He/she must be able to effectively evaluate the sources of data and develop recommendations pertaining to the training programs for the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected sufficient data to be used by supervisor in updating internal controls which ensure policy compliance; and/or I have assisted in gathering, analyzing and formulating plans of action to improve a program or revise an internal procedure; and/or I have identified a deficiency in an internal procedure and notified supervisor for further action. I have independently gathered information specific to program review deficiency, analyzed related policy and procedural documents and provided recommendations for supervisory consideration to correct deficiency or increase effectiveness of facility operations; and/or I have collected sufficient documentation to develop/organize data and procedures for the institution to meet ACA accreditation or program review guidelines; and/or I have participated on a workgroup by assisting with research to aid in the final product development and presentation; and/or I have researched and provided recommendations for corrective action of a management issue. I have researched a specific topic and made recommendations which impacted a national audience; and/or I have led a workgroup responsible for analyzing, interpreting and/or providing guidance that impacted agency policies or procedures; and/or I have established goals, assigned and monitored work of the members and communicated findings with CEO and presented final product to key players; and/or I have investigated a known deficiency in organizational policy and/or procedure, and submitted recommendations for corrective action which were subsequently adopted by the agency. None of the above. 5 The Curriculum Developer develops curricula within the field of corrections using completed studies, occupational analyses, available data, surveys, job performance requirements, training objectives, and skill requirements.&nbsp; He/she plans, coordinates, and develops instruction based on the findings of occupational analysis, and develops, reviews, and revises instructional materials for courses or occupations according to specific learning objectives. Performs duties related to designing or developing criteria for designing training aids and devices based on needs analysis of the instruction systems. Plans, coordinates, develops, reviews, or evaluates education or training programs for total support in the area of corrections to include equipment, weapons, facilities, budget, and other resource requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a subject matter expert (SME) in the development of training courses, visual aids, handouts and activities for course support; and/or I have developed curriculum and lesson plans for training at the institution/local level; and/or I have facilitated a job task analysis to develop curriculum and training aids. I have coordinated and conducted evaluations to create an instructional program and curricula for an emerging specialty area; and/or I have developed, reviewed and revised instructional courses using methodologies such as individualized instruction, job performance aids, video/workbook packages, simulation, interactive video disk and computer based instructions; and/or I have developed and implemented plans to measure achievement of instructional methods; and/or I have led a workgroup to develop interagency curriculum and lesson plans. I have consulted with subject matter experts (SME) in order to revise existing training programs and lesson plans; and/or I have developed basic learning objectives and other instruments to measure student achievements and adequacy of instruction; and/or I have developed lesson plans and curricula to teach inmates. None of the above. 6 The Curriculum Developer performs a range of duties with respect to specific courses and programs as the design, presentation, and oversight of course modules on supervisory and management skills; cross-cultural effectiveness; Myers-Briggs Type Indicator; management and leadership; interpersonal, communication and writing skills; conflict resolution; time management skills and team building skills.&nbsp; To effectively perform the duties associated with this position, he/she must possess strong verbal communication and facilitation skills, as he/she is responsible for coordinating, conducting and facilitating a variety of meetings, panels, and discussions to achieve results desired by the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated meetings with upper management officials to develop policy, training programs or resolve a complex issue; and/or I have developed effective presentations or lesson plans that are utilized to train or inform participants at a national level; and/or I have presented/facilitated training classes or presentations in multiple program areas to a diverse audience of line staff, supervisors and upper level managers. I have provided training on various topics at the institutional level using one type of training/instructional methods; and//or I have modified instructional methodologies to accommodate different learning styles and adult learners; and/or I have presented information on policy and procedures to executive staff and responded to questions accurately and appropriately. I have assisted with training or instructional events such as Annual Training; and/or I have worked as a teaching assistant; and/or I have assisted primary instructor in presentation of course material. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).