Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position at the journeyman level. Failure to specifically identify skills equivalent to a journeyman may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Bindery Worker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and material needs; and/or I have trained new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments and estimated time and material needs; and/or I have evaluated performance and provided training to new workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 In a correctional setting, Bindery Worker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e. safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems). None of the above. 4 Bindery Worker Supervisors must have a variety of experience in the bindery field at the journeyman level. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience or training in folders, collators, cutters, drills, perforators, stitchers, sidebinders, inserters, 3 knife trimmers, etc., in which specialized production processes are involved. I have experience in binding and finishing printer material using folders, collators, cutters, drills, perforators, stitchers, sidebinders, inserters and 3 knife trimmers in the production of printer material AND involving two or more of the following: multi-page folding, multi-section collating, trimming, drilling, etc. I have performed bindery operations involving common bindery equipment associated with the printing trade. None of the above. 5 Bindery Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of new and up-to-date trade practices in the bindery field, the ability to use trade theory in accomplishing the more demanding or precise tasks, or in inventing new ways to perform tasks that cannot be done by established procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recently diagnosed difficult bindery related production problems working from diagrams and schematics, diagnosing difficult production problems and working to close tolerance; and/or I have completed a printing apprenticeship with major emphasis on bindery operations or have an equivalent combination of experience and completion of some courses in printing. I have limited experience or closely supervised work in fine tolerance measuring in production of finished printed matter. I have recently diagnosed difficult bindery related production problems working from diagrams and schematics, diagnosing difficult production problems and working to close tolerance under unusual conditions of independence or by demonstrating ingenuity in solving difficult problems and recommending new procedures (i.e., making modifications to equipment to accomplish unusual demand). None of the above. 6 Bindery Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use measuring instruments to determine the thickness, weight, height, spacing, circumference, etc., where rigid specifications exist. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have extensive experience as a supervisor or journeyman in the use of calipers, micrometers, and gauges in measuring printed materials to extremely fine tolerances; and/or I have been an instructor in a trade school. I have used calipers, micrometers, and gauges at the journeyman level of the trade. I have worked closely supervised in fine tolerance measuring in the production of finished printed matter with limited experience. None of the above. 7 Bindery Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as manuals and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed typical layouts and specifications for most types of bindery operations. I have followed layouts and verbal instructions for simple or moderately difficult tasks. I have formulated layouts, scheduled appropriate equipment, etc., requiring independent judgment to satisfy complex specifications in producing finished printed matter of superior quality. None of the above. 8 Bindery Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use and maintain folders, collators, cutters, drills, perforators, stitchers, 3 knife trimmers, inserters, sidebinders and other trade related machinery to produce marketable end products. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed journeyman level work in all phases of bindery section including minor maintenance of equipment. I have experience under close supervision in a variety of processes or work as an operator in a limited phase of the bindery operation. I have been a foreman, factory representative or instructor who used and maintained a variety of bindery equipment when instructions were unavailable, determined and identified defects in the bindery process, and took action to correct the problem. None of the above. 9 Bindery Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of processes and materials needed to produce a finished product designed to meet rigid specifications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a journeyman or foreman while demonstrating working knowledge of bindery operations. I have experience with a limited number of processes as an operator or any other bindery work under close supervision. I have been a foreman, factory representative or instructor and am knowledgeable in using paper, glues, wires, tapes, threads, plastics, etc., and have recognized defects and eliminated the cause. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).