Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining elevator equipment (e.g., motors, electrical circuitry)? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical or electrical equipment. I have completed coursework related to mechanical or electrical equipment, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical or electrical equipment by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical or electrical elevator equipment (e.g., door openers, buttons). I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by troubleshooting electronic elevator systems. 2 Do you have experience cleaning machinery and tools as directed by a senior employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Do you have experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Do you have experience cleaning construction worksites or elevator car tops? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 With which equipment maintenance tasks have you assisted others? Answer to this question is required Assembled / disassembled a motor Adjusted pulley cables Adjusted door locks Greased equipment Cleaned trackwork or rails Adjusted roller guides None of the above 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience leveling elevators. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience leveling elevators. I have completed training on how to level elevators, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted a journeyman in leveling elevators. I have worked as a journeyman to level elevators. 8 Which equipment components have you assisted others in installing or repairing? Answer to this question is required Switches Elevator buttons Door chains Door cables Drive chains Sprockets Rollers Axles None of the above 9 Which tasks have you performed to protect the worksite while assisting others with maintenance tasks? Answer to this question is required Set up tarps /carpet to protect worksite floors Set up safety barricades to prevent pedestrian entry into the worksite Set up ladders (e.g., a-frame, extension) Organized tools within easy reach for the journeyman Collected all tools used from the worksite None of the above 10 Which equipment components have you lubricated? Answer to this question is required Ball bearings Sheavs Governors Roller guides None of the above 11 Do you have experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Do you have experience reading and following Lockout/Tagout procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying elevator codes? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting or applying elevator codes. I reviewed elevator codes as directed by a senior employee or journeyman. I have interpreted and applied elevator codes to ensure compliance of elevator systems. 14 Which technical documents have you read and interpreted? Answer to this question is required Blueprints Wiring diagrams Trouble shooting sequences Fault readouts from servicing equipment Equipment technical specifications Electrical codes Elevator codes None of the above 15 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience applying electrical principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience applying electrical principles. I have completed coursework on electrical principles, but have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have applied electrical principles to wire a series circuit. I have applied electrical principles to wire a parallel circuit. I have applied electrical principles to wire multiple integrated circuits. 16 Which tools have you identified or used with assistance from a journeyman employee? Answer to this question is required Feeler gauge Channel locks Snap ring pliers Torque wrenches Cordless drills Insulated pliers None of the above 17 Which safety equipment do you have experience using on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety vests Harnesses Safety glasses Steel-toed boots Arc face shield protection Dust masks Insulated gloves None of the above 18 Which tasks have you used a computer to complete? Answer to this question is required To log work completed To read job orders To submit timesheets To request leave To complete job status reports None of the above 19 How have you used a computer on the job? Answer to this question is required To look up equipment specifications To look up trouble shooting instructions To order equipment To summarize work completed None of the above 20 Do you have experience assisting others with elevator trouble shooting tasks (e.g., electrical wiring, motors)? Answer to this question is required Yes 20.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 21 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience trouble shooting elevator systems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience trouble shooting elevator systems. I have completed training or coursework related to electrical or mechanical systems, but have not applied this knowledge to perform trouble shooting. I have experience trouble shooting electrical or mechanical systems through home improvement projects (e.g., dishwashers, automotive). I have assisted others in trouble shooting electrical or mechanical systems as a construction helper, electrician's helper, or automotive helper. 22 Which elevator systems do you have experience trouble shooting? Answer to this question is required Electronic drives Computerized control systems Circuit boards Integrated systems Selector systems Load weighting systems Dispatching systems Security access systems None of the above 23 Does the Architect of the Capitol employ any member of your family? Answer to this question is required Yes 23.1 Please provide the name, relationship, organization in which employed and location if known. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 24 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 24.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.