Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience: Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, with major study or at least 24 semester hours in subjects directly related to the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher. I am currently at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement because I am below the GS-02 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher. Within the past 52 weeks I have been at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-02. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-05 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-05, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-05 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-05 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-05 grade level without my having to compete. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-04 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GL/GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GL/GS-05 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GL/GS-05 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GL/GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GL/GS-05 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GL/GS-05 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Phlebotomists have daily contact with medical staff, other professional staff, administration, support services, and inmates, and must be able to communicate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with ancillary departments to gather and exchange information pertaining to patient care; and/or I have communicated with outside vendors on laboratory services to coordinate scheduling and services; and/or I have consulted with supervisor as to the acceptability of a donor. I have participated in interviewing donors to secure information in accordance with established donor criteria; and/or I have reported pertinent patient care information to a supervisor (i.e., specimen collection times or pending orders). I have conveyed critical and routine lab reports to requesting medical staff; and/or I have provided patient education on collecting non-blood specimens to the patient or medical staff; and/or I have provided pre-and post-specimen collection instructions to the patient or other medical staff collecting non-blood specimens. I have communicated information on the status of patient specimen collections; and/or I have communicated information on laboratory schedules to inmates or staff; and/or I have answered the phone in the lab or clinic and responded to basic questions or directed to appropriate personnel. None of the above. 5 Phlebotomists must possess a basic knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and medical terminology in order to carry out the various venipuncture tasks assigned by physicians, mid-level practitioners, nurses, and medical technologists. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed advanced medical terminology courses; and/or I have experience using medical terminology in positions, such as medical transcriptionist, medical office assistant, nursing assistant, surgical technician, or sterile supply technician, within a community medical center, outpatient clinic, treatment center, or diagnostic center. I have utilized a knowledge of medical root words, prefixes, and suffixes to complete recurring inquiries; and/or I have completed a basic medical terminology class; and/or I have translated common medical abbreviations and terms for patients and families; and/or I have used a medical dictionary or medical spell check software for accuracy and/or to discriminate between similar terms or abbreviations. I have supplied accurately spelled terms and understood medical abbreviations as needed by medical staff; and/or I have explained information which contained medical terms from other sources, including the Internet, support organizations, etc.; and/or I have transcribed medical orders without assistance. I have transcribed orders under supervision; and/or I have completed on-the-job training experience which provided general familiarity with medical terms; and/or I have completed course work at the college or junior college level which included the use of terms related to medicine (i.e., anatomy, physiology, human biology). None of the above. 6 Phlebotomists are responsible for obtaining blood specimens through the use of various venipuncture techniques. They are required to furnish specimen collection containers and instructions to patients on collecting specimens for urine and feces. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have successfully performed venipuncture using a butterfly needle; and/or I have successfully performed venipuncture using vacutainers (i.e., vacuum tubes); and/or I have successfully performed venipuncture using a needle and syringe; and/or I have supplied a specimen collection container and instructed patients on collecting specimens for urine and feces; and/or I have utilized draw regulations to obtain specimens when drawing multiple specimens during a single venipuncture. I have obtained blood samples from areas other than choice vein sites (hand, forearm, etc.); and/or I have collected blood using a heel stick or from scalp veins with butterfly needle. I have assisted in performing a finger stick to check hemoglobin; and/or I have assisted in performing finger stick to check glucose levels; and/or I have assisted in successfully obtaining blood specimens from patients in standard vein sites; and/or I have assisted in collecting various specimens for routine or waived testing after demonstrating competence in collection techniques. I am certified by the American Society of Clinical Pathologists (ASCP), the American Medical Technologists (AMT), or the American Association of Medical Personnel (AAMP); and/or I have handled patient adverse reactions during phlebotomy (i.e., fainting, development of hematoma, convulsions, vomiting and nausea). None of the above. 7 Phlebotomists are responsible for processing, storage, and shipment of various laboratory specimens. Tasks will be accomplished utilizing appropriate specimen collection containers for each test. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected proper specimen containers for unusual or obscure tests; and/or I have prepared specimens requiring special handling for shipment; and/or I have properly prepared and stored frozen specimens for later processing; and/or I have received certified training in packaging and shipping of infectious materials. I have performed processing and storage for lipids, liver profiles or CBC (complete blood count); and/or I have conducted CLIA (Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act waived testing; and/or I have provided patient with proper specimen collection equipment, such as 24 hour urine containers, hemoccult slides, etc. I have assisted with blood processing and storage for CBC, lipids, liver profiles, etc.; and/or I have identified and used appropriate blood collection tubes (blue top, purple top, speckled top(SST); and/or I have assisted in conducting CLIA waived testing. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).