Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education and license or registration, you must have one year of professional nursing experience at, or equivalent to, the next lower grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;for verification at the time you apply. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name, degree and date awarded. 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and&nbsp;educational transcript requirement. The educational transcript and&nbsp;license&nbsp;will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: Applicants must have six months of experience in a mental health setting as a medical professional. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume. 4 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner must evaluate the healthcare needs of mental health patients with both acute and chronic psychiatric and medical health concerns, diagnose and prescribe the appropriate treatments and medications in an outpatient setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted in indirect roles in an outpatient setting (i.e., consultation, case management, supervision); and/or I have served as a consultant or educator for families and staff; and/or I have functioned as lead/therapist in group and individual counseling sessions. I have evaluated the need for pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic interventions for mental illnesses; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions; and/or I have effectively utilized differential diagnosis process to problem solve in the emergent situation. I have performed in-patient mental health rounds within hospital or segregation unit; and/or I have completed an initial patient history and cursory examination prior to presenting the information to a supervising physician and developing a differential diagnosis; and/or I have completed a follow-up evaluation/examination after initial medical testing is completed and discussed the results with the patient and supervising physician. None of the above. 6 The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner must appropriately assess the patient&rsquo;s history and disease processes/disorders and prescribe appropriate medication as they pertain to the psychiatric and medical components of the patient. The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner&rsquo;s assessment is critical in this area because improper dispensing of medicine may cause negative side effects or have fatal results. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared formulary requests for medications; and/or I have assisted in monitoring patients for medication side effects and assisted with recommendations for medication changes; and/or I have provided medication side effects to patients with assistance from supervising physician/co-workers. I have, with physician supervision, adjusted psychiatric medication regimens to include dosage adjustment; and/or I have, with physician supervision, ordered and evaluated laboratory tests related to psychiatric medication side effects and diagnoses; and/or I have, with physician supervision, managed medications for patients with singular medical or psychiatric disorders such as mild depression or anxiety. I have prepared non-formulary requests for medications; and/or I have monitored patients for medication side effects and made recommendations for appropriate changes; and/or I have educated behavioral health patients on medication side effects; and/or I have acquired yearly certification-required amount of Continuing Medical Education credits in psychiatric pharmacology. None of the above. 7 The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner must evaluate and interpret diagnostic test results, make diagnostic impressions based on those test results, and prescribe the appropriate treatment as it pertains to the psychiatric patient. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, with assistance, ordered specialized procedures and tests; and/or I have recommended referrals to psychiatrist or physician specialists; and/or I have educated patient regarding results of diagnostic tests or therapeutic interventions. I have observed and aided with ordering routine procedures and tests; and/or I have assisted with educating patient regarding results of routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have assisted with routine procedures and tests and addressed abnormal results with assistance from physician. I have ordered and evaluated psychiatric treatment procedures; and/or I have made referrals to Interventional Psychiatry and monitored progress of patient condition; and/or I have conducted specialized procedures and tests and addressed abnormal results. None of the above. 8 The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner must relate and deal effectively with inmates from various backgrounds and cultures regarding medical and psychiatric health care issues/concerns.&nbsp; By providing guidance and counseling, Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners may positively impact patient behavior patterns and attitudes towards personal healthcare. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with conducting patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have assisted with discussion rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance; and/or I have helped with validating patient understanding of medication side effects and patient education. I have assisted with guiding group therapy sessions for mental health patients; and/or I have conducted patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have provided basic therapeutic intervention to patients in emotional distress; and/or I have discussed rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance; and/or I have validated patient understanding of medication and side effects and patient education. I have counseled noncompliant patients to accept treatment plans; and/or I have interviewed patients to evaluate for high risk health behaviors; and/or I have utilized interpreter to validate a patient’s understanding of both psychiatric and medical disease processes and treatment plans; and/or I have delivered care to medically complex patients with psychiatric disorders. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of&nbsp;Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education and&nbsp;license or&nbsp;registration requirement, you MUST have at least one or more full years of professional nursing experience at, or equivalent to, the next lower grade level. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;for verification at the time you apply. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name, degree and date awarded. 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirement. &nbsp;The educational transcript and license&nbsp;will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: Applicants must have one year of experience in a mental health setting as a medical professional. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume. 4 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners must evaluate the health care needs of mental health patients with both acute and chronic psychiatric and medical health concerns. They diagnose and prescribe the appropriate treatments and medications in an outpatient setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted in direct roles in an inpatient and outpatient setting (i.e. assessment and intervention); and/or I have independently diagnosed and managed patients with multiple, complex, chronic and acute psychiatric and medical problems; and/or I have, in the absence of a physician, worked as a Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner in an outpatient setting. I have acted in indirect roles in an outpatient setting (i.e. consultation, case management, supervision); and/or I have served as a consultant or educator for families and staff; and/or I have functioned as lead/therapist in group and individual counseling sessions. I have evaluated the need for pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic interventions for mental illnesses; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions; and/or I have effectively utilized differential diagnosis process to problem solve in the emergent situation. None of the above. 6 Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners must appropriately assess the inmate patient's history and disease processes/disorders and prescribe appropriate medication as they pertain to the psychiatric and medical components of the patient. The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner's assessment is critical in this area because improper dispensing of medicine may cause negative side effects or have fatal results. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared non-formulary requests for medications; and/or I have monitored patients for medication side effects and made recommendations for appropriate changes; and/or I have educated behavioral health patients on medication side effects; and/or I have acquired yearly certification-required amount of Continuing Medical Education credits in psychiatric pharmacology. I have initiated and adjusted psychiatric medication regimens to include dosage adjustment of chronic health medications where applicable; and/or I have ordered and evaluated psychiatric and medical diagnostic laboratory tests in order to make appropriate changes in medication regimens; and/or I have independently managed various types of medications for patients with multiple psychiatric and medical comorbid conditions. I have, with physician supervision, adjusted psychiatric medication regimens to include dosage adjustment; and/or I have, with physician supervision, ordered and evaluated laboratory tests related to psychiatric medication side effects and diagnoses; and/or I have, with physician supervision, managed medications for patients with singular medical or psychiatric disorders such as mild depression or anxiety. None of the above. 7 Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners must evaluate and interpret diagnostic test results, make diagnostic impressions based on those test results, and prescribe the appropriate treatment as it pertains to the psychiatric patient. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ordered and evaluated psychiatric treatment procedures; and/or I have made referrals to Interventional Psychiatry and monitored progress of patient condition; and/or I have conducted specialized procedures and tests and addressed abnormal results. I have ordered and evaluated laboratory, radiological, and therapeutic treatment tests as they apply to contributing psychiatric and medical diagnoses; and/or I have, based on diagnostic values, made appropriate changes in medication regimens for both psychiatric and medical problems as necessary; and/or I have evaluated and treated patients requiring Interventional Psychiatry to monitor progress of patient condition. I have, with assistance, ordered specialized procedures and tests; and/or I have recommended referrals to psychiatrist or physician specialists; and/or I have educated patient regarding results of diagnostic tests or therapeutic interventions. None of the above. 8 The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner must relate and deal effectively with inmates from various backgrounds and cultures regarding medical and psychiatric health care issues/concerns.&nbsp; By providing guidance and counseling, Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners may positively impact patient behavior patterns and attitudes towards personal healthcare.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided crisis intervention to patients with suicidal ideation; and/or I have diffused a crisis involving angry, violent/manipulative patients; and/or I have led a support/self-help patient group. I have counseled noncompliant patients to accept treatment plans; and/or I have interviewed patients to evaluate for high risk health behaviors; and/or I have utilized interpreter to validate a patient’s understanding of both psychiatric and medical disease processes and treatment plans; and/or I have delivered care to medically complex patients with psychiatric disorders. I have assisted with guiding group therapy sessions for mental health patients; and/or I have conducted patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have provided basic therapeutic intervention to patients in emotional distress; and/or I have discussed rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance; and/or I have validated patient understanding of medication and side effects and patient education. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).