Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Examples of specialized experience include the following:&nbsp; (1) Experience in the development and execution of an Affirmative Employment Program. (2) Experience evaluating new and complex legislation, public laws, regulations, policies and procedures related to Affirmative Employment Programs. (3) Experience performing high-level analytical, evaluative and coordinative work associated with a wide range of topics and issues. (4) Experience establishing barrier analysis teams and overseeing or conducting barrier analysis to determine the root cause of low representation or other identified barriers, and developing and monitoring plans to eliminate barriers to equal opportunity. &nbsp; No 2 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience conducting data analysis pertaining to workforce demographics, review and compilation of statistical information and the development of EEO program reports. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Identified critical issues. Developed methods and approaches for gathering data. Evaluated program criteria. Applied analytical techniques to review data and processes. Developed recommendations to eliminate barriers identified. None of the above. 3 Select the response that best describes your experience coordinating with and advising senior management on a range of broad and complex issues related to EEO, Disability,&nbsp;Reasonable Accommodation, and Affirmative Employment Programs. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task and I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 I have experience researching and interpreting the following statutes that impact EEO objectives, standards and procedures. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Title VII of Civil Rights Act of 1964 Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA) Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008 Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act Equal Pay Act of 1963 EEOC Management Directive 715 (MD-715) Congressional Accountability Act (CAA) None of the above 5 Select the statement that best describes your ability to make timely and effective decisions and produce results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. Answer to this question is required Independently, developed ideas and programs that have an impact on a wide range of activities within the organization. Independently identified opportunities to develop services within and/or outside the organization taking risks to pursue a benefit, advantage or savings for the organization. Anticipated and identified potential or actual problems related to the achievement of program goals and provided corrective actions and/or developed contingency plans. Developed leadership and professional skills by participating in professional, management and/or community activities or by serving on multi-functional committees. Took the initiative to organize the workload, balancing the interests and needs of clients and readjusting/adapting the workload and priorities to unforeseen demands and emergencies. None of the above. 6 Have you facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience writing policies for an organization. Answer to this question is required I have independently written and implemented policy in precedent-setting situations. I have independently written new policies to address issues or gaps. I have independently revised existing policies to comply with changes in laws, regulations, or other standards. I have worked collaboratively with others (e.g., committee member) to write or revise policies. I have made recommendations to others for new or revised policies. I have completed education and/or training related to writing policies but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no experience writing policies. 8 Do you have experience analyzing voluminous, conflicting information in order to solve a problem? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience providing practical solutions to decision-makers that were implemented to resolve complex organizational issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which communication duties have you performed as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization Facilitated communications between organizational entities Briefed senior management Presented recommendations on controversial issues Provided guidance/consultation to others on professional issues None of the above 11 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward accomplishment of organizational goals. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team. I have extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, and/or direction as needed. 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.