Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you have experience, education or training in the procedures for planning and producing informal and formal fine and performing arts or public programs in a museum or similar cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in planning and implementing fine and performing arts programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in planning and implementing fine and performing arts programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have had education or training in planning and implementing fine and performing arts programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have assisted in carrying out fine and performing arts programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have helped plan and implement fine and performing arts programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution as a regular part of the job, independently, and/or only under general supervision by a supervisor or senior employee I have supervised and trained others in the planning and implementation of fine and performing arts programs and activities for a museum or comparable educational institution. 4 Which of the following best describes your level of experience as the person responsible for digital outreach and engagement within a project team or other working group? Answer to this question is required I have not served in this capacity on a project team. I have fulfilled this role as a junior member of a team, working on specific tasks assigned to me by others. I have fulfilled this role as a senior member of a team with broad responsibility for digital outreach components in accordance with project goals. I have led a team in designing and carrying out one-or-more virtual public programs or digital outreach and engagement projects. I have supervised a team in designing and carrying out one-or-more virtual public programs or digital outreach and engagement projects. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your skill in working with a team to develop and deliver fine and performing arts and public programs? Answer to this question is required I have supervised a team in making decisions about program direction and facilitated the team’s work in developing and delivering a range of fine and performing arts and public program experiences related to African American history and culture. I have led a team responsible for developing and delivering fine and performing arts and public programs experiences related to African American history and culture. I have led a team responsible for developing and delivering public programs in any related field, specialty or cultural activity. I have participated as part of a team developing and delivering public programs. I have no experience working with a team to develop and deliver public programs. 6 Which of the following audiences have you created public programs for? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Museum audience. General public. Classroom audience. Online. None of the above. 7 Which of the following responses best describes your experience with planning cultural public programs? Answer to this question is required I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center. I have not had experience, education or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs. I have had education or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center that were specifically designed for an exhibit or event. I have had oversight for planning and executing culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center that were specifically designed for an exhibit or event. 8 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in public program and performing arts development and specialized skills in production techniques to conceptualize, create and produce public programs? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in conceptualizing, creating and producing large annual and/or multi-series public programs, including music, civic engagement, food and discussion-based events. I have some experience conceptualizing, creating and producing public programs, including interactive historically based and/or music events. I have some experience conceptualizing, creating and producing public programs. I have some experience producing public programs, but not conceptualizing and creating them. I do not have any experience producing public programs. 9 Which of the following responses best describes your experience with planning cultural public programs? Answer to this question is required I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center. I have not had experience, education, or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs. I have had education or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center that were specifically designed for an exhibit or event. 10 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience building audiences? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience setting targets, developing and monitoring budgets, ensuring efficient use of resources, and evaluating success to build audiences in a museum, performing arts or cultural setting I have some experience formulating goals, developing and monitoring budgets, ensuring efficient use of resources, and evaluating success to build audiences in a museum, performing arts or cultural setting I have experience working audience development, but not in a museum, performing arts or cultural setting. I do not have experience in audience development. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience implementing a public program that encompasses multiple learning levels and diverse constituencies? Answer to this question is required I have independently implemented a museum public program that encompasses multiple learning levels and diverse constituencies. I worked on a team that implemented a museum public program that encompasses multiple learning levels, diverse constituencies, and program evaluation. I have assisted senior staff with implementing public programs that encompass multiple learning levels. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 12 Give oral presentations. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training giving oral presentations. I have completed education or training giving oral presentations, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have given oral presentations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have given oral presentations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have given oral presentations as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task 13 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience making oral presentations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Coworkers/Peers Grant Makers Contractors Senior level officials Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Professionals within my organization Professionals from outside my organization Members of the public Foreign visitors Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 14 Which of the following oral presentations have you prepared in support of public programming? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Making public announcements to introduce a presentation by a lecturer, demonstrator, or performer. Moderating a lecture, symposium, or seminar with multiple presenters. Making oral presentations to large audiences (>100 people). Making oral presentations ( Making oral presentations to support public programming to senior staff, Congress, or potential funding organizations. Speaking to a small group about public programs. None of the above. 15 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience managing contracts and supervising the work of contractors or serving as a Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR)? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing these responsibilities. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed the task on the job under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task, or I have supervised performance of this task or am normally an individual who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience writing proposals? Answer to this question is required As a team leader I have worked on all aspects of grant or proposal development to support public program efforts at a museum, educational institution, or similar organization. I have developed proposal concepts timelines, budgets, and staffing plans. I have also written and advised others on writing proposals for contracts, gifts, or grants. As part of a team, I have worked on grants and proposals to support public program efforts at a museum, educational institution, or similar organization. And I have contributed to the proposal development. I have no experience with grant or proposal writing. 18 Which of the following department or special project budgets have you been responsible for managing? (do not include payroll expenses) Answer to this question is required I have managed a budget of less than $50,000. I have managed a budget between $50,000 to $250,000. I have managed a budget between $250,000 to $500,000. I have managed a budget of more than $500,000. I have not managed a budget. 19 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing and overseeing contracts? Answer to this question is required I have experience in financial management of contracts and oversight and negotiation with artists, performers, and presenters. I have experience in the financial management of contracts and oversight and negotiation with artists, performers and presenters—for contracts with a dollar value from $1.00 up to $50,000. I have experience in the financial management of contracts and oversight and negotiation with artists, performers and presenters —for contracts with a dollar value from $51,000 up to $150,000. I have experience in the financial management of contracts and oversight and negotiation with artists, performers and presenters —for contracts with a dollar value from $151,000 and above. I have some experience with contracts. None of the above. 20 Which of the following describes your experience in drafting budgets and resolving budget related problems? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing, monitoring, and tracking program budgets. I have monitored expenditures for items such as materials, services, and supplies. I have developed and monitored the execution of department budgets. I have experience using computer spreadsheets to do reports. I have experience independently resolving conflicting priorities. I have experience using automated programs such as PeopleSoft Financials. I have experience monitoring budgets of an office or section. I have assisted in the preparation of budget reports and I am familiar with budget terminology. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.