Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 3 Which of the following describes your experience managing the transportation, insurance, security, packing and shipping of museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed daily visual verification checks of museum items on exhibit for location verification and condition status. I have arranged for the insurance of museum objects and loans. I have identified and inspected long and short term secure fine arts spaces for staging exhibitions and storing collections. I have prepared packing and shipping cost estimates for fine arts shipping of museum objects and art. I have prepared shipping instructions, general bill of lading, receipt of delivery, and crate summary reports for fine arts shipping of museum objects and art. I have organized packing and shipping arrangements for objects and art to be shipped internationally. I have made special security arrangements to support the shipping of high value objects. I have couriered museum objects domestically. I have couriered museum objects internationally. None of the above. 4 Please select any duties you have held relating to personnel supervision. Answer to this question is required Recruiting new employees Interviewing and/or selecting new employees Training employees Supervising and/or managing employees Evaluating the performance of employees Making promotion decisions about employees I have not had any personnel supervision experience 5 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to lead or supervise (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising a collections management staff? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising and training full-time collections management personnel engaged in acquiring, managing, and providing access to collections and collections-based research results, and I have established performance standards and performance plans and had formal performance evaluation responsibilities. I have experience as a work leader for teams or groups of collections management personnel, but have had no formal responsibility for performance evaluation. I have assisted in training new employees, interns, or volunteers. I have attended training courses in supervision or leadership. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in collections management work for museum exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in collections management work for museum exhibits. I have moderate experience in collections management work for museum exhibits. I have minimal experience in managing or overseeing collections management work for museum exhibits. I do not have experience managing or overseeing collections management work for exhibits. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a large or varied collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections? (select one) Answer to this question is required I have managed a large or varied collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have managed a small collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have worked as a lead member of a team managing a large or varied management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have no experience managing a collections management program. 10 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience, education, or training in maintaining pest management plans? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training maintaining pest management plans. I have completed formal education or training in maintaining pest management plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job I have maintained pest management plans on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have maintained pest management plans as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Maintaining pest management plans has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following describes your experiences with oral communication? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience responding to requests for information from the public concerning an organizations programs and services I have experience responding to requests for information from high level officials and key stakeholders. I have experience establishing effective interpersonal relationships in order to accomplish work. I have experience using oral communication skills to encourage public involvement in an organization’s programs and activities. I have experience advising senior staff on the feasibility and status of programs and/or projects. I have experience representing an organization at external events. I do not have any of the experiences described above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience with basic preservation techniques for museum collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff members in the basic preservation techniques for museum collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have applied basic preservation techniques for museum collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have assisted in the application of basic preservation techniques for museum collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have no experience with the preservation of museum collections. 13 Which of the following collections physical care tasks have you had experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled objects that vary in size, material, age, weight, structure, and condition while following appropriate preservation practices. I have safely transported objects to and from collection storage areas. I have created accurate object tags and storage unit labels and attached them appropriately. I have assisted with reorganizing collections to properly re-associate objects that had become intermingled with other collections or dispersed throughout storage. I have housed/rehoused objects using proper preservation techniques and materials. I have inspected collection storage areas and objects to determine if there is pest activity. None of the above. 14 Which of the following types of experience do you have packing and/or shipping fragile museum objects or collections? Answer to this question is required I have experience packing and/or shipping a variety of museum objects and collections. I have experience with particular types of museum collections (e.g., archeological artifacts, sculptures) I have experience packing and shipping of delicate or fragile objects. I have experience packing museum collections but not shipping them. I have experience shipping museum collections, but not packing them. I do not have experience in either packing or shipping objects or museum collections. 15 Which of the following procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have NOT performed these job functions. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. 16 Which of the following tasks best describes your experience with managing budgets? Answer to this question is required I have helped develop budgets based on prior expenditures for similar projects. I have monitored a project budget and expenses to ensure the projects remained within limits. I have monitored multiple project budgets to ensure all projects remained within limits. I have assisted in the development of multi-year, project budgets while collaborating with multiple departments and ensuring the budgets remain on track. I have developed multi-year project budgets (including for traveling exhibitions) while collaborating with multiple departments to ensure all anticipated expenses are captured and projects remained within limits. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.