Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which has provided me with the specialized experience in translating, interpreting, or other work using English and the other language. I have a combination of work equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service (that required English and the other language) AND training at the Defense Language Institute, Foreign Service Institute, or comparable training. My experience does not match any of the choices above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience translating from English into French? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following do you routinely read in your source language? Answer to this question is required Newspapers Other periodicals Novels Short stories Poetry Essays Other non-fiction None of the above 5 Which of the following describe your exposure to texts of treaties and international agreements? Answer to this question is required As a translator As a negotiator As a comparing officer As a treaty analyst As a student of law As a paralegal As a researcher None of the above 6 Select all the sources you have drawn upon to increase your knowledge of your target language, particularly as it is used in foreign affairs: Answer to this question is required Academic study Self-study Daily newspapers Foreign affairs journals Weekly newsmagazines Working in a foreign affairs environment Watching or listening to news programs Books None of the above 7 For which of the following agencies / organizations have you performed staff or contract translation work? Answer to this question is required Department of State Other Federal Government agency (in the United States) State or local government agency (in the United States) Foreign government agency International organization Non-profit organization Private sector translation agency Other direct translation client None of the above 8 In which of the following areas of specialization do you consider yourself highly skilled as a translator? Answer to this question is required Patent translation Legal translation Biomedical translation Literary translation Financial translation Business translation Diplomatic translation Localization Technical translation Military translation None of the above 9 Which of the following types of documents have you translated on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required Speeches Technical reports Financial statements or reports Laws Treaties and international agreements Diplomatic correspondence Websites Slides Conference agendas Brief biographical sketches Official correspondence Vital records Court documents Patents Literature Government forms Training manuals Scripts (for voice overs) Captioning Transcriptions of voice recordings Ad copy Marketing brochures None of the above 10 Is your professional translation work regularly reviewed / quality controlled? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you ever worked as a translator or linguistic adviser directly with a team or group of teams responsible for drafting or negotiating a text? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Do you compile your own glossaries? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience producing brief target-language summaries of source language texts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience producing brief target-language summaries. I have produced brief target-language summaries under supervision. I have produced brief target-language summaries as part of a team. I have independently produced brief target-language summaries. I produce brief target-language summaries as a regular part of my job and serve as a mentor to other translators as their reviewer. 14 What types of text have you sight translated? Answer to this question is required Laws Correspondence Newspaper or general magazine articles Articles from technical journals Forms Vital records Court records None of the above 15 What tools do you routinely use in your self-review? Answer to this question is required Foreign language dictionaries English dictionaries Style and usage manuals in my target language Style and usage manuals in my source language Thesauri Automated spell checks Automated grammar checks None of the above 16 Through which of the following ways have you acquired your knowledge of source languages? Answer to this question is required Study in a country that uses my source language Employment in a country that uses my source language Residence in a country that uses my source language Family Friends Use of media in my source language Academic study of my source language Tourism in a country that uses my source language Academic study, in my source language, of international affairs or of the culture of a country that uses my source language Host / participant in student exchanges involving my source language None of the above 17 Which of the following do you routinely read in your target language? Answer to this question is required Newspapers Other periodicals Novels Short stories Poetry Essays Other non-fiction None of the above 18 Have you had to review translation work of other translators? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following BEST describes your work experience working with colleagues to discuss and resolve terminology and other translation issues? Answer to this question is required I attend team meetings with other translators and generally provide input only when asked. I attend team meetings with other translators and generally freely provide input during the conversation. I attend team meetings with other translators and encourage other people to actively participate in the discussion. I lead team meetings with other translators and facilitate the discussion. None of the above. 20 With which of the following translation related tasks do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Project management Translation test grading Supervision of translators Review and or critique of other translators` work Drafting guidelines for translators Drafting style handbooks for translators None of the above 21 Which of the following research sources do you regularly consult? Answer to this question is required Conventional print dictionaries CD-ROM glossaries On-line glossary databases Internet (other than on-line glossaries) Translator listservs None of the above 22 Which of the following activities have you used to hone your skill at writing your target language? Answer to this question is required Publishing an article or other piece of writing in that language. Teaching the written form of that language. Taking courses in writing or composition using that language. Taking courses in the grammar of that language. Producing unpublished creative writing in that language. Doing extensive reading in that language. Proofreading the writings of others in that language. None of the above. 23 Which of the following describes your training in reviewing translations? Answer to this question is required I have no training in reviewing translations Self-study On-the-job training Informal mentoring by professional colleagues Formal course / seminar in reviewing translations None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.