Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead phases of the software development lifecycle. ** Led phases of software development projects, including design, development, test, and support. Answer to this question is required Served as a technical lead on an enterprise-wide software development project, which included serving as a resource for other developers, navigating design decisions, interacting with users to get their requirements or user stories, inspecting a release candidate for quality, using a ticketing system to balance workload, and using a version control system. Served in a leadership capacity on more than one phase of an enterprise-wide software development project, such as developing user stories, design, development, quality assurance, testing, and production support, and have participated in the other phases. Have used a ticketing system for tracking tasks and a version control system for code. Participated on a team in all of the phases of an enterprise-wide software development project, including developing user stories, design, development, quality assurance, testing, and production support and have used a ticketing system for tracking tasks and a version control system for code. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to apply SCRUM Master experience on projects written in languages such as Python, JAVA, .NET or PHP. ** Acted as a SCRUM master for modern, web-based software engineering projects. Answer to this question is required Acted as SCRUM Master on a complex, pubic facing web application, Oversaw the daily activities of one or more SCRUM team, facilitated the standard Agile ceremonies and coordinated activities and dependencies with other, related teams. Worked with customer to overcome identified risks and blockers. Participated in streamlining and maturing Agile processes and standards. Acted as SCRUM Master for a project that had more than 1 engineering team working on a single solution. Coordinated activities across teams and facilitated standard Agile ceremonies. Acted as SCRUM Master for a single engineering team, provided daily guidance and coordinating regular Agile ceremonies. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of library and information science or digital content management. Used knowledge of the principles of information and library science or the management of digital content collections. Answer to this question is required Served in a leadership position for technology projects for a library, archives, media organization, or similar institution focused on managing digital content. Worked on technology projects for a library, archives, media organization, or similar institution focused on managing digital content. Worked on a project that served to manage digital content. Familiar with digital content and some of the challenges in preserving it and making it accessible at scale. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Conveyed information in written form. Answer to this question is required Experience preparing authoritative information on complex policy and technical issues for organization executives and managers and for people at a variety of levels within and outside of the organization. Experience preparing authoritative information on complex policy and technical issues for people at a variety of levels within an organization. Experience preparing authoritative information on policy and technical issues for technical staff within an organization. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).