Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Regional Safety Administrator serves as the technical advisor to regional and institutional staff.&nbsp; He/she routinely communicates with other local, state, and Federal agencies on environmental and occupational safety matters.&nbsp; The Regional Safety Administrator must communicate technical and complex information. &nbsp;He/she must also keep abreast of the many changes within safety, and develop and provide training to other administrators. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed supervisor on environmental and occupational safety matters and made recommendations for improvements; and/or I have provided safety information to local institution personnel on a variety of pertinent safety topics (i.e., fire prevention, hazardous chemical control, lock-out/tag-out procedures) during Annual Training or meetings; and/or I have led task force meetings and discussed developing and modifying institutional programs. I have provided training/information on safety/environmental protection issues to local, state, or Federal safety professionals in a formal setting; and/or I have provided technical guidance and policy information to executive staff and upper management; and/or I have led institution accreditation team for American Correctional Association accreditation. I have provided safety training through monthly “Safety-Talk” instruction sessions; and/or I have conducted a training seminar for peers; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have coordinated facility inspections. None of the above. 5 The Regional Safety Administrator composes technical responses to safety violations, operational memorandums, and pertinent safety correspondence.&nbsp; He/she also assists in the drafting of national policy. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed newsletter articles, reports, correspondence and memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have written memorandums for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments. I have written a memo for all department heads regarding a newly established procedure; and/or I have composed reports reflecting statistical data to local or regional executives within the agency; and/or I have composed a memo regarding fire control procedures; and/or I have prepared correspondence regarding safety requirements. I have composed national policy/institution supplements; and/or I have initiated correspondence to local, state or federal safety counterparts addressing new environmental or occupational safety concerns; and/or I have developed educational materials directly related to safety; and/or I have drafted budget estimates and justifications; and/or I have written an article published in a correctional publication or professional journal; and/or I have prepared a statement on an institutional issue for release to the media. None of the above. 6 The Regional Safety Administrator serves as the technical advisor for the region and institutions on the application of the life safety codes.&nbsp; He/she must be capable of interpreting and providing assistance on the application of life safety codes as they apply to building design and life safety requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted blueprints involving renovation and construction projects to ensure compliance with fire codes; and/or I have interpreted the Code of Federal Regulations for implementation of specific requirements pertaining to fire safety; and/or I have served as a consultant to management on new construction or rehabilitation projects within the institution; and/or I have developed a comprehensive inspection program; and/or I have identified potential hazards and existing hazards and formulated plans for correction. I have reviewed contract requirements; and/or I have drafted institution supplements and written institution OSHA plans; and/or I have assisted in conducting fire safety inspections; and/or I have reviewed contract requirements regarding storage, hazardous areas, and fire exit diagrams. I have provided guidance pertaining to various life safety topics; and/or I have identified life safety deficiencies and made recommendations; and/or I have conducted inspections on older buildings and housing units and identify deficiencies and determine what is acceptable. None of the above. 7 The Regional Safety Administrator serves as a technical advisor on policy and procedures including occupational safety, environmental protection, workers&rsquo; compensation and fire protection areas for the region and institutions.&nbsp; He/she must have knowledge in all safety program areas and be capable of providing assistance on the application of various codes and regulations for programs encompassing a broad range of occupational activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed current institution or local safety policy and recommended revisions; and/or I have submitted revisions to an environmental health requirement for a UNICOR operation and/or equipment used in an institution or facility; and/or I have recognized a safety deficiency on a work detail and took appropriate corrective action. I have implemented corrective actions for routine safety violations; and/or I have investigated staff and inmate injuries and determined appropriate action to be taken; and/or I have applied a variety of established safety related policies and procedures; and/or I have conducted routine inspections to ensure occupational safety requirements are met. I have interpreted applicable policies in conjunction with the Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHA), the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), the Office of workers Compensation Program (OWCP), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); and/or I have organized, developed and implemented training programs for staff and inmates based on changes or revisions to regulations; and/or I have monitored permit applications and construction activities to ensure compliance with regulatory and policy requirements; and/or I have networked with other agency personnel to discuss, interpret, apply, and clarify technical, complex safety regulations; and/or I have developed internal procedures which ensured compliance with national safety directives. None of the above. 8 The Regional Safety Administrator serves as technical advisors for the Region and institutions in the areas of occupational safety and environmental health policy.&nbsp; He/she must be capable of interpreting and providing assistance on the application of various codes and regulations when evaluating safety and environmental concerns for programs encompassing a broad range of occupational activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted safety procedures involving manufacturing processes; and/or I have interpreted industrial safety guidelines encountering an inspection process issue; and/or I have interpreted new safety regulations and design procedures for implementation of specific requirements pertaining to safety and environmental health; and/or I have interpreted National Fire Protection Association regulations regarding fire sprinkler requirements and occupancy load factors. I have provided guidance pertaining to various safety topics, i.e., lock-out/tag-out, confined space programs, hazardous communication, machine guarding, Fall Protection Program requirements; and/or I have facilitated staff assistance visits; and/or I have participated in a program review or professional audit; and/or I have performed inspections of various business establishments. I have reviewed construction contracts for compliance with safety regulations; and/or I have drafted institution supplements, program statements; and/or I have conducted occupational safety and environmental health inspections. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).