Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which tasks have you performed with an Inventory Supply Database? Answer to this question is required Maintained inventory control records Analyzed supply requirements Determine supply stock levels Summarized supply requirement Estimated frequency of supply orders Monitored usage transactions Tracked timing of reorders Developed reports to monitor delivery of goods None of the above 2 Which computer applications have you operated to maintain an inventory? Answer to this question is required Inventory management systems Work request management systems Facility management systems Financial management systems Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft Power Point None of the above 3 Which tasks have you performed to maintain stock of supplies or equipment? Answer to this question is required Verified low inventory levels Competed bids to multiple vendors Requested authorization to replenish inventory Transmitted a purchase order to vendors Developed supply plans Processed purchase orders Solicit bid proposals Determined ordering lead time Evaluated available storage/staging space Transferred supplies between cost centers/programs Reviewed requisitions None of the above 4 Have you disposed of damaged or retired property? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. 4.2 Please describe your experience performing this task. Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 5 Which of the following type(s) of individuals have you provided customer service for? Answer to this question is required Vendors/Contractors Ordering Managers Trade/Construction shop managers Inventory Management Specialists Purchasing Agents None of the above 6 Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience ensuring the accuracy of supply inventories: Answer to this question is required I have not ensured the accuracy of supply inventories or supply orders. I have matched inventory records to physical inventory to check accuracy. I have identified inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. I have resolved inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. 7 Which tasks have you performed to check the accuracy of supply orders? Answer to this question is required Checked orders against order history Confirmed order amounts with individual placing the order Checked order amounts against projected supply Physically checked inventory to confirm need for supplies None of the above 8 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Ensured all employees are certified in the required courses established by the acquisition authorities. None of the above. 9 Have you used catalogues or the internet to identify the correct supplies to order? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which individuals have you interacted with to explain or resolve supply problems? Answer to this question is required Vendor representatives Accounting staff Delivery personnel Security staff Purchasing staff End users of inventory supplies None of the above 11 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interacting with others to explain inventory or supply policies. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interacting with others to explain inventory or supply policies. I have explained inventory or supply policies with assistance from a senior employee. I have explained inventory or supply policies to assist others in obtaining supplies. I have explained inventory or supply policies to justify reasons for denying purchasing requests or preferences. I have explained inventory or supply policies to individuals who are angry or demand that exceptions be made. 12 Select the response that best describes your experience or education verifying the accuracy and completeness of budgetary data and ensuring that sufficient funds are available to cover obligations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 13 Which tasks have you performed when ordering materials? Answer to this question is required Compare official quotes to requested materials/supplies Compare vendor quotes to determine most appropriate material/supplies that match requirements Consider Small business requirements when processing orders. 14 Have you reconciled Credit Card statements in a financial management system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Have you processed material orders using an assigned credit card? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.