Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 This position requires that you be able to perform the following duties: frequent walking, standing, stooping, bending, kneeling, and pushing of carts, mowers and wheelbarrows, occasionally climbs ladders to prune vegetation and frequently lifts heavy objects such as bags or fertilizer, logs or rocks. Answer to this question is required I am able to perform the duties listed above. I am unable to peform the duties listed above. 2 Which of the following describes your experience using tools in performing the work of a gardener (i.e. trowels, pruning shears, mowers, rototillers, string trimmers, blowers and other power equipment)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience using sprayers, gas shears, rototillers, string line trimmers, pruning shears and chain saws. I have experience using proper fertilizers and growth regulators. I have experience using tractors, loaders and toolcats. I have experience using trowels and garden shears. I have experience using tools and materials in performing gardening work. I have no related experience. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with plants and plant materials used in landscaping (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in a wide range of ornamental and exotic plants. I have experience in the proper landscape use of a wide range of flowers, grasses, perennials, shrubs, trees and bamboos. I have experience in the proper unsupervised use of fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides and fungicides. I have experience of a wide range of plants and their cultural requirements. I have experience in recognizing most common plants and shrubs. I have do not have related experience. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience evaluating plant health? Answer to this question is required I recognized symptoms that indicated a plant was under stress or in poor health and notified my supervisor for identification and resolution of the concern. I have identified specific problems related to plant health and sought guidance on resolving the problem. I independently corrected problem conditions causing poor plant health. I have provided guidance and advice to others in the identification and resolution of plant health concerns. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience installing seasonal displays and/or exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have removed existing vegetation and installed seasonal flowers, perennials, or shrubs in new landscape beds. I have removed existing vegetation, amended soil, and graded and installed plant material in a new landscape bed. I have converted existing turf areas into garden beds by removing turf, amending soil, and planting annuals, perennials, and woody plants. I have installed seasonal flowers, perennials, and shrubs in existing landscape beds. I have installed seasonal flowers and perennials in existing landscape beds. I have installed seasonal flowers (annuals) in existing landscape beds. I have no experience with installing seasonal displays and/or exhibits. 6 Which of the following materials have you handled and applied to plants for cultivation purposes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Soil amendments (e.g., gypsum, lime, sulfur). Mulch. Fertilizer. Water. Insecticides. Fungicides. Herbicides. None of the above. 7 Which of the following ornamental plants do you have experience cultivating in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Trees/shrubs. Perennials/grasses. Annuals/bedding plants. Bulbs. Turf. I have no experience. 8 Which of the following snow removal equipment do you have experience using in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Snow plow (truck-mounted). Skid steer with blade or rotary broom attachment. Snow blower/thrower. Salt spreader. Shovel. I have walked behind brushes. I have no experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience performing professional snow removal? Answer to this question is required I have performed snow removal on a small scale (e.g., residential walkways, paved driveways). I have performed snow removal on a moderate scale (e.g., commercial sidewalks, parking lots). I have performed snow removal on a large scale (e.g., roadways, parking areas). I do not have experience performing snow removal tasks. 10 Which of the following pieces of equipment do you have experience using in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Chipper. Leaf Vac. Compact utility loader. Chainsaw. Backpack blower. Rototiller. String trimmer. Hedge trimmer. None of the above. 11 Which of the following have you used in landscape management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Trucks. Tractors. Rototillers. Sprayers. Hand tools. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.