Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) program? Answer to this question is required Redact privileged information and cite appropriate exemptions for those redactions. Log and track request under FOIA and Privacy Act using an electronic database. Organize/maintain large volumes of documents and data in accordance with the records management policies and procedures. Create reports and organize statistical data. Analyze office practices and standard operating procedures in order to initiate changes to reflect best practices. Ensure proper format, grammar and spelling when drafting FOIA or PA final action letters. Provided guidance on statutes, regulation and litigation applicable to FOIA and PA. Handle classified materials in accordance with policy and regulations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience analyzing and/or reviewing requested material to determine whether information must be withheld under the Freedom of Information act and Privacy Act? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Do you have experience reviewing and/or monitoring the status of requests under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select all the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (e.g., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (e.g., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 7 Select the responses that describe the methods and sources you have used to gather data: Answer to this question is required Internet Fact-finding interviews Direct 'first-hand' observation Case law or legal documents Government regulations Organizational policy manuals Newspapers, magazines, periodicals None of the above 8 Which of the following BEST describes the experience you have in providing legal advice concerning the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 9 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience conducting electronic and paper record searches for documents pursuant to requests filed under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and/or as part of the litigation discovery process: Answer to this question is required I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior colleague. I have performed this task on the job under a supervisor or senior colleague. I have education and/or training in performing these types of searches, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I am experienced at performing this task and lead and/or train others. 10 Select the response that best describes your experience in analyzing data for trends and notable changes and reporting on these findings to senior employees: Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with safeguarding sensitive information? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, usually with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 12 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience establishing and maintaining liaison with other offices and agencies regarding matters of overlapping responsibility relating to a FOIA program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience providing guidance on the release of information from passport files requested under the provisions of the Freedom of Information or Privacy Act? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience in preparing a variety of correspondence including briefing materials for senior level officials? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 15 Select the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (i.e., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal or policy issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (i.e., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher-level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in retaining your composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people and attitudes? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management. I am very familiar with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), but have limited experience in FOIA case management. I have experience with Freedom of Information (FOIA) case management at the office level. I have experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management at the agency level. I have supervised efforts in an area of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management. 18 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) program? Answer to this question is required Redact privileged information and cite appropriate exemptions for those redactions. Log and track request under FOIA and Privacy Act using an electronic database. Organize/maintain large volumes of documents and data in accordance with the records management policies and procedures. Create reports and organize statistical data. Analyze office practices and standard operating procedures in order to initiate changes to reflect best practices. Ensure proper format, grammar and spelling when drafting FOIA or PA final action letters. Provided guidance on statutes, regulation and litigation applicable to FOIA and PA. Handle classified materials in accordance with policy and regulations. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience analyzing and/or reviewing requested material to determine whether information must be withheld under the Freedom of Information act and Privacy Act? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Do you have experience reviewing and/or monitoring the status of requests under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select all the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (e.g., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (e.g., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 7 Select the responses that describe the methods and sources you have used to gather data: Answer to this question is required Internet Fact-finding interviews Direct 'first-hand' observation Case law or legal documents Government regulations Organizational policy manuals Newspapers, magazines, periodicals None of the above 8 Which of the following BEST describes the experience you have in providing legal advice concerning the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 9 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of the Freedom of Information Act of 1966? Answer to this question is required I am not familiar with the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act of 1966. I understand some of the issues associated with the Freedom of Information Act of 1966. I am very familiar with the Freedom of Information Act of 1966, but have not developed requirements related to the Act. I have developed and/or managed Freedom of Information considerations for projects on which I have worked. I have supervised efforts in which Freedom of Information considerations were implemented as a requirement. 10 Which of the following choices best describes your understanding of the Privacy Act of 1974? Answer to this question is required I am not familiar with the requirements of the Privacy Act I understand some of the issues associated with the Privacy Act I am very familiar with the Privacy Act, but have not had to develop requirements related to the Act I have developed and/or managed privacy considerations for projects on which I have worked I have supervised efforts in which privacy considerations were implemented as a requirement 11 Select the response that best describes your experience in analyzing data for trends and notable changes and reporting on these findings to senior employees: Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with safeguarding sensitive information? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, usually with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 13 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience establishing and maintaining liaison with other offices and agencies regarding matters of overlapping responsibility relating to a FOIA program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Which of the following BEST describes your experience providing guidance on the release of information from passport files requested under the provisions of the Freedom of Information or Privacy Act? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 Select the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (i.e., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal or policy issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (i.e., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher-level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in retaining your composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people and attitudes? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 18 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management. I am very familiar with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), but have limited experience in FOIA case management. I have experience with Freedom of Information (FOIA) case management at the office level. I have experience with Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management at the agency level. I have supervised efforts in an area of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) case management. 19 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 20 Do you have experience developing and implementing an organization`s policies and procedures for use by employees or managers? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.