Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of this position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 This position requires physical exertion such as long periods of standing, walking, bending, stooping, reaching, crawling; and lifting and carrying heavy objects of 50 pounds or less. I am able to satisfy the physical requirements of this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This position requires that the incumbent possess a valid state or District of Columbia driver's license in order to transport materials, equipment or staff to job sites. Do you have a valid state or District of Columbia driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have the ability to lead a full range of operations, maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and control work? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following statements describes your experience performing leadership duties? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to employees. I have provided leadership to employees. I have reviewed employee’s work. I have established deadlines for employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by employees. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated employees. None of the above 6 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, training and experience in leadership concepts and principles? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, or management but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and has led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled operators on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and has led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above 7 Which of the following types of boiler(s) have you performed maintenance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required High pressure Low pressure Hot water None of the above 8 Which of the following types of chiller(s) have you performed maintenance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Centrifugal Chiller Scroll Chiller Screw Chiller Hermetic Chiller None of the above 9 Which of the following responses best describes your experience maintaining and operating centrifugal pumps as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required I have maintained and operated centrifugal pumps with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have assisted others in maintaining and operating centrifugal pumps. I have independently maintained and operated centrifugal pumps. I have overseen and monitored the work of others maintaining and operating centrifugal pumps. I have led or supervised the work of others maintaining and operating centrifugal pumps. None of the above 10 Which of the following building environments have you had the most experience performing HVAC-related preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 11 Which of the following responses best describes your highest level of experience (as a regular part of your job) maintaining and operating commercial/industrial air-handling units? Answer to this question is required I have maintained and operated commercial/industrial air-handling units with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have assisted others in maintaining and operations commercial/industrial air-handling units. I have independently maintained and operated commercial/industrial air-handling units. I have overseen and monitored the work of others maintaining and operating commercial/industrial air-handling units. I have led or supervised the work of others maintaining and operating commercial/industrial air-handling units. None of the above 12 Do you have a valid state or District of Columbia driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following steam pressure ranges have you had the most work experience? Answer to this question is required 0-15 psi 16-30 psi 31-100 psi 101-200 psi Over 200 psi None of the above. I have not worked in an environment that requires me to work with steam pressure. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with electronic and electrical systems? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with electronics and electrical systems. I have minimal experience with electronics and electrical systems in a work environment. I have worked extensively, as a regular part of my duties, with electronics and electrical systems. I have led other in working with electronics and electrical systems. I hold a certification and/or license in electronics and electrical system. I have trained others in working with electronics and electrical systems. 15 Which of the following commercial/industrial air handling units have you had the most experience performing maintenance? Answer to this question is required 10 to 20,000 cfm 20,000 to 30,000 cfm 30,000 to 40,000 cfm or greater None of the above 16 Do you have a current and valid EPA Universal Certificate for Refrigerants? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which of the following stationary engineer’s licenses do you current possess? Answer to this question is required First Grade Stationary Engineer Second Grade Stationary Engineer Third Grade Stationary Engineer None of the above 18 Which of the following measuring instruments do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Water flow meter Anemometer Bolometer Pressure Gauges Multi-meter Caliper Pyrometer Measuring Tape Ultrasound Testing Equipment None of the above 19 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines None of the above 20 Which of the following types of steam traps do you have experience performing preventive or predictive maintenance service? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required F&T (Float & Thermostat) Inverted Bucket Thermostat Disc None of the above 21 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience performing HVAC-related troubleshooting and repair in a building environment? Answer to this question is required I have performed HVAC-related troubleshooting and repair with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have assisted others in performing HVAC-related troubleshooting and repair. I have independently performed routine HVAC-related troubleshooting and repair. I have overseen and monitored the work of others performing HVAC-related troubleshooting and repair. I have led and supervised the work of others performing HVAC-related troubleshooting and repair. None of the above 22 Which of the following task(s) have you performed related to troubleshooting building automation systems (BAS) as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Troubleshooting electronic and pneumatic relays Calibrating multiple electronic and pneumatic devices Troubleshooting electronic and pneumatic modules Generate alarm reports, operator reports, etc Use software program to communicate with devices and/or diagnose problems Troubleshooting floor level and/or building level networks Troubleshoot automated BAS Program Troubleshoot automated BAS sequence of operations None of the above 23 Which of the following task(s) do you have experience performing preventive maintenance in a commercial building environment as a regular part of your duties? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Bearing inspection and lubrication Inspection and replacement of filters Inspect and exercise valves for proper operation Tensioning/adjustment/replacement of belts Observation/checks on strainers, traps, seals Inspect operation of dampers and actuators Coil inspection None of the above 24 Which of the following utility system materials do you have experience maintaining? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Valves Stream traps Filters Strainers Coils Dampers Control Valves Flow control devices None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.