Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Accountants must prepare financial documents and reports in maintaining the agency's financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted meeting notes for review by others; and/or I have written correspondence to customers and suppliers concerning the status of outstanding orders and invoices; and/or I have communicated with company personnel using the local area network (LAN). I have completed monthly balance and internal control check for review by management; and/or I have drafted correspondence concerning accounting information, such as TDY travel, for review by institution staff; and/or I have sent notifications to debtors requesting settlement of outstanding debts. I have drafted written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have drafted cover memorandums for the monthly balance and internal control outlining the status of the accounting operations; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have prepared responses to the Controller's request for data or audit data calls. None of the above. 3 Accountants must be able to analyze and evaluate data and/or information in order to identify and solve problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed general ledger accounts for proper balances and identified erroneous balances; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to analyze written policies and successfully apply the policies; and/or I have completed financial documents by comparing general ledger entries to source documents; and/or I have reviewed real property files to verify their accuracy. I have identified problems with point of sales terminals by reviewing error reports and corrected the problems; and/or I have reconciled the transportation reserve register to the amount accrued in the general ledger and corrected any errors noted; and/or I have reviewed open liabilities for accuracy and corrected errors. I have collected information from an automated system in order to compile reports; and/or I have identified and corrected pricing errors on inventory; and/or I have generated and provided reports concerning inventory and sales; and/or I have compared source documents to data entered into an automated system and verified their accuracy. None of the above. 4 Accountants must demonstrate an ability to organize work in order to successfully accomplish several tasks at the same time while meeting established deadlines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in Program Reviews, reviewing assigned sections effectively and in a timely manner; and/or I have received invoices and prepared payment vouchers within prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have contacted vendors concerning incorrect invoices within prompt payment guidelines. I have created a spreadsheet to reconcile real accounts on a daily basis limiting the number of reconciling items at months end; and/or I have created a procedural manual for others to use ensuring consistency and timeliness of the completion of duties; and/or I have completed monthly account balances and internal control checks with all accounts reconciled by the due date. I have organized incoming and outgoing assignments by utilizing in and out boxes and/or a tickler file; and/or I have developed a check list of duties that need to be completed weekly or monthly; and/or I have planned daily activities according to priority. None of the above. 5 Accountants must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved vendor invoice differences in vouchers by reviewing procurement documentation and receiving data; and/or I have reconciled real accounts to subsidiary reports; and/or I have managed a small payroll accounting process on a daily basis. I have completed the job cost variance report and submitted it to the factory manager; and/or I have ensured that all payments were accurate and processed on time in accordance with prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have reviewed open payables to determine their validity; and/or I have reconciled real property, personal property, and the related depreciation accounts to subsidiary records; and/or I have prepared an income statement to reflect financial standing at year-end. I have balanced sales to shipments per revenue recognition policy; and/or I have computed inmate pay in accordance with inmate pay policy; and/or I have established accounts receivables per established guidelines; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have applied the prompt payment guidelines to the processing of payments and notifying vendors of incorrect invoices. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Accountants must be able to demonstrate the ability to take established accounting policies and procedures and use these policies and procedures to resolve problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched the hierarchy of GAAP to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices; and/or I have provided staff assistance to another office. I have reconciled transportation reserve register amounts to the balance for accrued transportation expense in the general ledger; and/or I have reconciled inmate payroll amounts to the general ledger accrual accounts and related expenses, identified errors, and made the necessary corrective entries; and/or I have pre-audited payment vouchers for accuracy. I have reviewed obligations for accuracy in accordance with written policies; and/or I have reconciled job cost variances from the standard; and/or I have reconciled general ledger accounts balances to the open item reports; and/or I have prepared the monthly balance and internal control check. None of the above. 4 Accountants must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected inmate payroll data from the source document and entered into the system of record; and/or I have matched vendor invoices to the receipt of goods listing and established payments; and/or I have entered new obligations into the accounting system and verified their accuracy by reviewing obligation reports. I have reviewed job costing data results for accuracy of the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly balances and internal control checks; and/or I have prepared the monthly close out folder from accounting source documents. I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data; and/or I have collected information and made the entries necessary to respond to audit data calls, such as the year-end expense recognitions for accrued payables or staff annual leave; and/or I have prepared annual accounts receivable report. None of the above. 5 Accountants must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed the job cost variance report and submitted it to the factory manager; and/or I have ensured that all payments were accurate and processed on time in accordance with prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have reviewed open payables to determine their validity; and/or I have reconciled real property, personal property, and the related depreciation accounts to subsidiary records; and/or I have prepared an income statement to reflect financial standing at year-end. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check and made necessary corrections. I have balanced sales to shipments per revenue recognition policy; and/or I have computed inmate pay in accordance with inmate pay policy; and/or I have established accounts receivables per established guidelines; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have applied the prompt payment guidelines to the processing of payments and notifying vendors of incorrect invoices. None of the above. 6 Accountants must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems in order to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used various menus to retrieve accounting documents; and/or I have adjusted accounts maintained in an automated system; and/or I have entered invoices into the automated system. I have monitored costing reports to include overhead variance reports, job cost variance reports, material and labor usage reports; and/or I have researched how source documents for entries are recorded into the automated accounting system; and/or I have generated operating results for the factory. I have generated cost variance reports needed to summarize cost standard validation; and/or I have generated reports of property, plant and equipment additions, deletions and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated management reports to prepare the monthly operating results report; and/or I have generated general ledgers to complete the monthly balance and internal control check. None of the above. 7 Accountants must prepare financial documents and reports in maintaining the agency's financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed monthly balance and internal control checks for review by management; and/or I have drafted correspondence concerning accounting information, such as TDY travel, for review by institution staff; and/or I have sent notifications to debtors requesting settlement of outstanding debts. I have prepared written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have proof read written documents for subordinates or co-workers. I have drafted written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have drafted cover memorandums for the monthly balance and internal control outlining the status of the accounting operation; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have prepared responses to the Controller's request for data or audit data calls. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).