Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Business Administrator must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the reviewing of proof checks; and/or I have reviewed obligations; and/or I have assisted on the decision of determining whether a Building & Facilities (B&F) project should be capitalized or expensed. I have detected errors on proof checks and returned for corrective action; and/or I have discovered errors in obligations, analyzed the problem, and directed corrective action; and/or I have researched and determined if a Building & Facilities (B&F) project should be a capitalized or expensed and monitored the accounting entries. I have reviewed proof checks; and/or I have analyzed obligations and discovered errors; and/or I have determined if a Building & Facilities (B&F) project should be capitalized or expensed. None of the above. 5 The Business Administrator must be knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have restructured budget transactions to determine errors and omissions; and/or I have compared the Consolidated Obligation Reporting System (CORS) or Expenditure and Allotment (E&A) reports to the Unified Financial Management System-Distributed Budget Module (UFMS-DBM) reports to ensure plans balance; and/or I have developed budgets consistent with agency guidelines at the local level. I have organized budget data for quarterly/annual budget submissions; and/or I have prepared quarterly and annual financial reports; and/or I have prepared budgetary reports using established programs. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established budget policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new Department Heads/Cost Center Managers. None of the above. 6 The Business Administrator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have insured due dates were met for sectional project; and/or I have adjusted staff priorities to respond to sectional requirements/ needs; and/or I have analyzed workflow of peers or subordinates and made recommendations to supervisor. I have prioritized workflow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have reviewed current financial operations to develop new procedures or made adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have performed short range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to the due date. None of the above. 7 The Business Administrator must be able to prepare written correspondence and reports and be able to give oral presentations on financial matters to other department heads, executives and regional staff. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for program managers; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information at budget meetings at the managerial level; and/or I have reviewed and ensured accuracy of accounting information for certifications (i.e., obligations, receivables, proof checks) for management’s review. I have reviewed lesson plan and presented training to other staff/inmates; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for meetings with co-workers; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of financial information for certifications (i.e., obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for financial staff; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for department head meetings; and/or I have prepared financial information for certifications (i.e., obligations, receivables, proof checks). None of the above. 8 The Business Administrator must be able to enter and retrieve data from automated financial systems. &nbsp; He/she also gathers and analyzes data from automated financial systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have certified payments in Unified Financial Management System (UFMS); and/or I have certified allotments/reprogrammed funds in the Budget Module; and/or I have posted new entries in SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS) or SENTRY Real Property Management System (SRPMS). I have reviewed and resolved error messages produced from automated accounting systems; and/or I have provided training and assistance to others in using automated financial systems (i.e., Unified Financial Management System (UFMS), Fund Control, SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS) or SENTRY Real Property Management System (SRPMS); and/or I have conducted research and provided explanations of variances using automated financial systems. I have operated Fund Control programs; and/or I have submitted payments in Unified Financial Management System (UFMS); and/or I have generated reports from Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) needed to prepare proof-checks. None of the above. 9 The Business Administrator must be knowledgeable of purchasing and inventory practices to oversee the purchasing and inventory operations. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with property walk-thru; and/or I have maintained Federal Credit Card purchases in database; and/or I have worked with contracting officer to resolve discrepancies in purchase orders or contacts. I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of the terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have reviewed inventory records to determine any discrepancies. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchasing and contract actions will be competitive or sole source; and/or I have reviewed statements of work; and/or I have reviewed inventory records and assisted in correcting discrepancies in inventory records. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Business Administrator must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have detected errors on proof checks and provided guidance on corrective action; and/or I have implemented a program to detect errors in obligations; and/or I have determined whether a Building & Facilities (B&F) project should be capitalized or expensed and ensured accounting entries are entered within the appropriate period. I have detected errors on proof checks and returned for corrective action; and/or I have discovered errors in obligations, analyzed the problem, and directed corrective action; and/or I have researched and determined if a Building & Facilities (B&F) project should be a capitalized or expensed and monitored the accounting entries. I have reviewed proof checks; and/or I have analyzed obligations and discovered errors; and/or I have determined if a Building & Facilities (B&F) project should be capitalized or expensed. None of the above. 5 The Business Administrator must be knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have restructured budget transactions to determine errors and omissions; and/or I have compared the Consolidated Obligation Reporting System (CORS) or Expenditure and Allotment (E&A) reports to the Unified Financial Management System-Distributed Budget Module (UFMS-DBM) reports to ensure plans balance; and/or I have developed budgets consistent with agency guidelines at the local level. I have determined the legality of using appropriated funds to purchase specific items; and/or I have monitored multiple appropriations, such as Salary and Expense (S&E), Trust Fund (TF), and Building and Facilities (B&F), to determine how well the institution is functioning financially; and/or I have provided guidance to other Financial Management staff (such as Accounting, Procurement and Warehouse) at the region and institution level in resolving financial issues. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established budget policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new Department Heads/Cost Center Managers. None of the above. 6 The Business Administrator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed long range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have taught a formal or informal course to subordinate staff; and/or I have coordinated the workload of staff in accomplishing the goals of the organization; and/or I have made changes to organization policy to assist in meeting the goals of the organization. I have prioritized workflow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have reviewed current financial operations to develop new procedures or made adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have performed short range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to the due date. None of the above. 7 The Business Administrator must be able to prepare written correspondence and reports and be able to give oral presentations on financial matters to other department heads, executives and regional staff. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for program managers; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information at budget meetings at the managerial level; and/or I have reviewed and ensured accuracy of accounting information for certifications (i.e., obligations, receivables, proof checks) for management’s review. I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for executive staff and financial managers from other locations; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for budget meetings at the regional level; and/or I have reviewed and ensured the accuracy of accounting information for certifications (i.e., obligations, receivables, proof checks) and presented to the executive staff for approval and signature. I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for financial staff; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for department head meetings; and/or I have prepared financial information for certifications (i.e., obligations, receivables, proof checks). None of the above. 8 The Business Administrator must be able to enter and retrieve data from automated financial systems. &nbsp; He/she also gathers and analyzes data from automated financial systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have certified payments in Unified Financial Management System (UFMS); and/or I have certified allotments/reprogrammed funds in the Budget Module; and/or I have posted new entries in SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS) or SENTRY Real Property Management System (SRPMS). I have reviewed and resolved error messages produced from automated accounting systems; and/or I have provided training and assistance to others in using automated financial systems (i.e., Unified Financial Management System (UFMS), Fund Control, SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS) or SENTRY Real Property Management System (SRPMS); and/or I have conducted research and provided explanations of variances using automated financial systems. I have participated on a taskforce/workgroup to develop or improve financial modules, reports, or operating system; and/or I have changed variables on existing programs to produce special reports; and/or I have suggested improvements in automated systems or reports (i.e., Unified Financial Management System (UFMS), Fund Control, SENTRY Property Management System (SPMS) or SENTRY Real Property Management System (SRPMS)) that were implemented by headquarters. None of the above. 9 The Business Administrator must be knowledgeable of purchasing and inventory practices to oversee the purchasing and inventory operations. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and evaluated procurement policies and procedures; and/or I have prepared terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored pre- and post- award action to effectively resolve complex issues, such as claims, protest, performance, and delivery; and/or I have reviewed and directed corrective action for discrepancies in inventory records. I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of the terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have reviewed inventory records to determine any discrepancies. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchasing and contract actions will be competitive or sole source; and/or I have reviewed statements of work; and/or I have reviewed inventory records and assisted in correcting discrepancies in inventory records. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).