Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Accountants must prepare financial documents and reports in maintaining the agency's financial integrity and operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a written analysis of financial statements and/or operations; and/or I have prepared responses to Finance Branch Memorandums and Audit Guidance Memorandums that required detailed accounting information. I have drafted written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have drafted cover memorandums for the monthly balance and internal control outlining the status of the accounting operation; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have prepared responses to the Controller's request for data or audit data calls. I have assembled financial reports to supply management with a written assessment of operations; and/or I have prepared written requests for write-off's and/or journal entries and provided clear explanations that fully explained the problem and corrective action needed to fix the problem. I have prepared written reconciliations explaining differences between general ledger accounts and subsidiary records; and/or I have submitted requests for prior period adjustments; and/or I have proof read written documents for subordinates or co-workers. None of the above. 4 Accountants must be able to demonstrate the ability to take established accounting policies and procedures and use these policies and procedures to resolve problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed obligations for accuracy in accordance with written policies; and/or I have reconciled job cost variances from the standard; and/or I have reconciled general ledger account balances to the open item reports; and/or I have prepared the monthly balance and internal control check. I have researched Comptroller General decisions to determine employee's travel entitlements; and/or I have researched complex accounting issues through the hierarchy of GAAP for upper management; and/or I have researched prior period adjustments and properly identified the corrective action needed; and/or I have performed analysis of proposed general ledger adjustments and determined through research the proper classifications for recording the transaction in accordance with GAAP. I have researched the hierarchy of GAAP to determine the correct classification of general ledger data; and/or I have processed job costing in accordance with written guidelines; and/or I have researched the prompt payment guidelines and applied that research to making payments and following up on incorrect invoices; and/or I have provided staff assistance to another office. None of the above. 5 Accountants must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data; and/or I have collected information and made the entries necessary to respond to audit data calls, such as the year-end expense recognitions for accrued payables or staff annual leave; and/or I have prepared annual accounts receivable report. I have reviewed product costing data and submitted requests to the General Managers outlining the corrective action needed to meet the standards established or pricing quoted; and/or I have participated in program reviews by reviewing accounting information and evaluating whether or not the information is processed within the guidelines provided for in policy; and/or I have collected information from the automated accounting system in order to formulate responses to audit data calls. I have reviewed job costing data results for accuracy of the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly balance and internal control checks; and/or I have prepared the monthly close out folder from accounting source documents. None of the above. 6 Accountants must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, to properly record accounting data and interpret findings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed the job cost variance report and submitted it to the factory manager; and/or I have ensured that all payments were accurate and processed on time in accordance with prompt payment guidelines; and/or I have reviewed open payables to determine their validity; and/or I have reconciled real property, personal property, and the related depreciation accounts to subsidiary records; and/or I have prepared an income statement to reflect financial standing at year-end. I have developed lesson plans and instructed staff at all levels on accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have developed spreadsheets to track financial data; and/or I have reviewed financial reports for improper general ledger account balances and determined the action that was necessary to correct errors; and/or I have reviewed the hierarchy of GAAP for new pronouncements and communicated the results of this review to a manager. I have reconciled job costing variances to the standard cost; and/or I have prepared the monthly review of operating results and costing data and made any necessary corrections; and/or I have completed the monthly balance and internal control check by making necessary corrections. None of the above. 7 Accountants must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems in order to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have generated cost variance reports needed to summarize cost standard validation; and/or I have generated reports of property, plant and equipment additions, deletions and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated management reports to prepare the monthly operating results report; and/or I have generated general ledgers to complete the monthly balance and internal control check. I have conducted research using an automated accounting system; and/or I have processed payments in an automated accounting system; and/or I have provided explanation of variance using an automated accounting system. I have monitored costing reports to include overhead variance reports, job cost variance reports, material and labor usage reports; and/or I have researched how source documents for entries are recorded into the automated accounting system; and/or I have generated operating results for the factory. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).