Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license&nbsp; documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 2 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 3 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration&nbsp;requirement, you must have the required specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-10 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-10, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-10 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-10 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-10 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-10 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-10 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-10 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-10, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-10, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-09 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-10 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 Nurses must have a knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures. They must be able to apply the knowledge to daily patient care and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated the care and assessment of non-critical patients; and/or I have provided comprehensive treatment to less serious illnesses or injuries; and/or I have managed a variety of drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors' orders and overseeing the work of assistants, and student nurses. I have performed glucose checks; and/or I have completed single dressing changes; and/or I have taken and recorded vital signs; and/or I have interviewed patients by completing histories; and/or I have administered oral medications and observed affect on patient. I have provided appropriate PICC line (intravenous catheter) or central line care; and/or I have started IVs; and/or I have administered and monitored IV fluids; and/or I have administered oxygen; and/or I have administered blood transfusions; and/or I have provided and updated immunizations, or allergy treatments and performed complex dressing changes. None of the above. 7 Nurses must have knowledge of general safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment, understanding isolation procedures, and universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case and alerted staff to ensure appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhered to established safety procedures. I have treated patients with contagious diseases like shingles or chickenpox; and/or I have changed or cleansed infected wounds or sores while wearing gloves and masks; and/or I have monitored HIV+ patients for evidence of opportunistic infections; and/or I have managed infectious wastes, sharps and linens. I have participated and provided leadership in evaluating and conducting hospital fire drills; and/or I have provided treatment in a hospital setting to patients with blood borne or airborne diseases requiring protective equipment available; and/or I oversaw nursing assistants or LPNs in the application of infection control procedures. None of the above. 8 Nurses must have the ability to assess patients' health care status and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (e.g. a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have administered/prescribed oral medications, (e.g. hypodermic injections and intravenous feedings). I have assessed and coordinated clinical care such as performing patient vital signs, medical histories, and height and weight checks; and/or I have monitored skin integrity of bed-ridden patients; and/or I have assessed nutritional needs of patients. I have met the needs of patients with complex, chronic conditions, requiring specific medical care and/or treatment; and/or I have monitored post-dialysis needs of patients; and/or I have monitored blood glucose levels of unstable diabetic patients; and/or I have provided intervention during a hypertensive crisis. None of the above. 9 Nurses must be able to communicate orally, conducting meetings, training sessions, for the purpose of informing others of patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have informed the charge nurses, other nursing staff, or doctors about the progress or condition of the patient and courses of treatment to improve the condition; and/or I have exchanged patient information with other medical professionals while working as a nursing assistant or nursing student. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or as a charge nurse or team leader, I have facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. I have provided a patient update at the shift report to nurses or doctors for the continued and appropriate care of the patient; and/or I have provided information to other health care providers at multi-disciplinary treatment or staff meetings. None of the above. 10 Nurses must possess the ability to document patient assessments and apply nursing interventions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented patient assessments, nursing interventions and condition in a narrative Subjective Objective Assessment Plan (SOAP) or Subjective Objective Assessment Plan Invention Evaluation (SOAPIE) format; and/or I have documented the administration of a variety of medications and the patient's response to the medication; and/or I have prepared a nursing care plan for a patient. I have initiated and updated care plans; and/or I have documented patient education; and/or I have provided written reports to committees regarding infectious disease, safety, or quality management; and/or I have developed nursing unit guidelines; and/or I have written articles for hospital newsletter; and/or I have developed written materials for staff education. I have documented patient care and condition in the medical record; and/or I have completed the required forms of the health care information system accurately; and/or I have accurately recorded medication administration, Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived test results and vital signs. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license&nbsp;will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 2 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 3 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration&nbsp;requirements, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-10 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-10, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-10 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-10 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-10 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-10 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-10 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-10 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-10, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-10, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-09 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-10 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-10 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 Nurses must have a knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures, and must be able to apply the knowledge to daily patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided appropriate PICC line (intravenous Catheter) or central line care; and/or I have administered and monitored IV fluids, oxygen, blood transfusions; and/or I have provided and updated immunizations, or allergy treatments; and/or I have performed complex dressing changes, Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived tests; and/or I have inserted Foley catheters; and/or I have provided wound care. I have administered infrequently used or special medications such as chemotherapy medications, continuous IV medication infusions; and/or I have set up and operated equipment such as cardiac monitors, arterial lines respirators, defibrillators, and endotracheal suction equipment. I have provided minor yet comprehensive treatment to less serious illnesses or injuries; and/or I have managed nasal-pharyngeal and gastric suction as well as a variety of other drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors' orders; and/or I have overseen the work of assistants, LPN's and student nurses. I have observed post-operative and seriously ill patients for adverse conditions and reactions; and/or I have provided emergency treatment to accident victims; and/or I have provided resuscitative measures in the case of a cardiac or respiratory arrest. I have provided holistic approach to patient care; and/or I have evaluated patient response to nursing care and intervention; and/or I have conducted patient education in regards to acute or chronic illness, and preventive health measures. None of the above. 7 Nurses must have knowledge of general safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment, understanding isolation procedures, and universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have practiced Universal Precautions; and/or I have provided treatment in a hospital setting to patients with blood borne or airborne diseases requiring extensive personal protective equipment; and/or I have overseen nursing assistants or LPNs in the application of infection control procedures. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case and alerted staff and ensured that appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhering to established safety procedures. I have completed dressing changes on HIV or immune-compromised patients; and/or I have administered intravenous medication to a patient with blood borne pathogens; and/or I have trained nursing assistants, LPNs and RNs on the protocol for blood spills, the dangers, and the proper procedures utilized for cleanup; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on an extensive basis; and/or I have recommended adopted safety practices on prevention of needle sticks and contamination. None of the above. 8 Nurses must have the ability to assess patients needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and subacute beds for patients with multi-system organ failures such as end stage liver disease, respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure; and/or I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management. I have met the needs of patients with chronic conditions requiring specific medical care and/or treatment; and/or I have observed patient's conditions; and/or I have provided required nursing care. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (e.g.a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have administered prescribed oral medications, hypodermic injections and intravenous feedings. None of the above. 9 Nurses must be able to communicate orally,&nbsp;conduct meetings and training sessions and inform others of patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conveyed information at conferences with health care officials, at public health forums, or with officials in private organizations; and/or I have given presentations at nursing conferences; and/or I have taught college courses to nursing students; and/or I have taught Basic Life Support in the community; and/or I have served as a facilitator at a public meeting. I have provided a patient update on the shift report to nurses or doctors for the continued and appropriate care of the patient; and/or I have communicated with pharmacist, dietitians, physical therapists and other health care providers at multi-disciplinary treatment meetings or staff meetings; and/or I have provided instructions to the family of a patient on proper care. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or as a charge nurse or team leader, I have facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. None of the above. 10 Nurses must have knowledge of rehabilitative nursing pre and post operative care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted a variety of rehabilitative patients with activities of daily living; and/or I have worked with patients requiring rehabilitation due to stroke or trauma; and/or I have prepared patients for surgical and/or diagnostic procedures; and/or I have provided care to patients who have suffered strokes, trauma, neurological and other conditions that caused decreased mobility. I have implemented the plan of care; and/or I have made patient referrals to physical therapy and/or observed the patient for progress or lack of progress in therapy; and/or I have recognized adverse reaction to surgery or complications from existing medical conditions. I have completed a nursing rotation as a student nurse on a rehabilitative or pre or post-operative floor; and/or I have worked with rehabilitative patients as a float nurse to a rehabilitative or pre or postoperative unit or as a nursing assistant; and/or I have prepared patients for tests, examinations and treatment. I have made recommendations for changes and improvements to enhance the care of rehabilitative and surgical patients, (i.e. referrals to other disciplines such as dietetics, respiratory therapy, social work, and chaplaincy); and/or I have provided recommendations for continued care upon discharge. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).