Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Information Management communicates with all levels of the organization, including Assistant Directors on a frequent basis on all matters pertaining to records management and applicable policy and regulations. &nbsp;He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served on a workforce utilization committee by providing updates and feedback; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have assisted in representing the agency/organization at a briefing with a member of Congress or their staff; and/or I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have conducted informal presentations to the executive staff/senior level management of an agency/organization; and/or I have contacted private industry, other departmental and Department of Justice information processing managers and others to negotiate mutual agreement on major systems and record issues; and/or I have gave formal presentations at job fairs, community events, vendor fairs; and/or I have provided technical assistance in the area of records management and electronic publishing policies to other Department of Justice components such as the United States Marshals Service, and to state, local, and foreign entities related to electronic publishing and information retrieval. I have represented the agency at conferences (i.e., seminars, inter-agency meetings and taskforce meeting); and/or I have represented division/unit/field office on a national work group; and/or I have represented agency at a community hearing regarding a proposal to build a correctional institution in the area; and/or I have served in a leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have served on a labor negotiation team as the chairperson; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/senior and executive level management, and provided recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated as a mediator in the Alternative Dispute Resolution process. I have provided guidance and advice to senior agency officials and provided policy interpretation for regional and institutional staff; and/or I have presented and described the agency’s correctional philosophy/goals and expectations via public speaking engagements, training program development/presentation and public relation affairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor; and/or I have served as a chief negotiator with labor union; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Information Management provides written reports, summaries, and guidance concerning records management policy and regulations to all levels of the organization, including the Director and Assistant Directors. &nbsp;He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which includes top officials, members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, line staff and the public.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted document research and developed internal documentation in support of Federal court orders and challenges, in coordination with lead counsel from the Office of General Counsel and the U.S. Attorney’s Office; and/or I have created or developed a document which describes technical issues or national or institution-wide policy/events; and/or I have developed new procedures and guidelines related to record and information registration management programs; and/or I have drafted agency policy with regard to implementing or using data collection systems; and/or I have served as a voting member of several government-wide workgroups that formulated and established records management policies and procedures for the Department of Justice and other Executive Branch agencies. I have reviewed newsletter articles, routing reports, correspondence and memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have written memorandums for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates for clarity, grammar and content; and/or I have written general correspondence and assisted technical experts in the drafting of policy and regulations. I have written program assessment and evaluations for the institution or the local office; and/or I have participated in group preparation of a report by writing part of the report, and reviewed and edited other team members' submissions; and/or I have prepared a report of incident; and/or I have written lesson plans; and/or I have edited policy drafts, and technical documents related to Bureau of Prisons policy, data processing systems, and policy information systems. I have written an article published in a corrections publication or professional journal; and/or I have developed national policy or institution supplements that were adopted for use by the agency or institution; and/or I have prepared a document to be used in administrative court hearing; and/or I have prepared technical responses to legal/court related inquiries. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Information Management is responsible for managing system-wide policy and related instruments of data collection for usage and to develop agency-wide records management policy.&nbsp; He/she ensures that records management systems are organized and available to capture all electronic and paper-based data as required by federal law, Department of Justice regulation, and agency policy.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) to management staff in the area of data collection systems; and/or I have implemented and directed agency data collection; and/or I have authorized and coordinated the spending of funds in support of agency-wide access to electronic and paper forms; and/or I have independently certified and approved agency translations of national policy; and/or I have ensured all records management policies are formulated and carried out in such a way as to provide the agency with effective and efficient support in terms of producing the documentation required to locate, authenticate, and dispose of information; and/or I have registered information in both existing and new automated information processing systems; and/or I have utilized various computer hardware, operating systems, and software to register information. I have provided guidance to staff in the area of data collection systems; and/or I have reviewed and provided comments on draft policy with regard to implementing or improvement of the data collection systems; and/or I have developed materials used in management or computer training courses; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments. I have created and published electronic systems of information collection, forms and information translation and conversion services for management; and/or I have evaluated plans for an advanced data collection system; and/or I have developed internal agency program statements; and/or I have developed management concepts and procedures in area of responsibility such as electronic records management, internet/intranet information registration and disposition, electronic indexing and automated distribution via Local Area Network, Internet and inter-linked electronic information depository servers; and/or I have provided agency-wide guidelines for information translation to achieve consistency in translated products; and/or I have participated on external records management and imaging working groups to enhance/improve the Department of Justice records management practices and imaging standards. I have provided guidance to staff regarding existing data collection procedures; and/or I have provided input into revision of existing policy with regard to data collection systems; and/or I have updated materials used in management or computer training courses. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Information Management assists with reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans, and programs for the National Policy Branch.&nbsp; The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies with precision and confidence.&nbsp; He/she analyzes a variety of information and supplements creditable information from a variety of sources.&nbsp; He/she is required to discuss conclusions with top-level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have collected and disseminated agency policy and procedures throughout the agency and when required, to other Department of Justice components such as the Parole Commission, U.S. Marshals and Immigration and Customs Enforcement; and/or I have served as an authority in creative interpretation of Federal Information Management Resource regulations as they apply to the agency; and/or I have assisted staff/others in managing an allocation of resources to specialized programs for accreditation to ensure fiscal responsibilities were met; and/or I have evaluated and determined the appropriateness of on-site assistance visits versus providing long distance training; and/or I have evaluated existing and proposed evaluation guidelines and other review procedures in order to ensure adequacy, test suspected weaknesses in controls and to determine effectiveness of programs/operations. I have participated on an bureau/agency operational review or equivalent; and/or I have determined trends based on agency’s performance and statistical data; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of the agency/division/unit/office; and/or I have monitored programs and services on a continual for evaluation purposes; and/or I have responded to administrative appeals regarding policy issues. I have recommended and took appropriate corrective action if/when weaknesses/problems arise/occurred; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed program/operational reviews and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Information Management assists the Administrator with the continuous evaluation of assigned sections/programs/operations, the coordination of division mission and other related program activities and decision making which impacts the overall operations.&nbsp; He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and taught classes to staff related to a particular specialty area; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an organization. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).