Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Supervisory Project Managers must possess comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals of UNICOR. They&nbsp;are responsible for the overall structure and supervision of the Project Management Program, including the loading of furniture and installation quotes, final bill of materials, and request for purchases. Decisions made by them&nbsp;directly impacts Federal Prisons Industries mission to produce and supply agencies of the Federal government with quality products at costs not to exceed current market prices. Decisions made by them&nbsp;also directly impact production, profit and UNICOR&rsquo;s ability to meet its mission and goals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated final bill of materials for part number problems and pricing discrepancies; and/or I have monitored workload to determine if production goals within a department were being met; and/or I have determined sufficient manpower resources existed for a department. I have modified operations to accommodate work load and scheduling; and/or I have reviewed business plans and met established objectives for fiscal period; and/or I have adjusted product lines or departments to meet production delivery cost goals/requirements for the factory; and/or I have coordinated manufacturing and shipping furniture product lines from multiple factories. I have maintained inventory of available materials/goods; and/or I have kept supervisors abreast of approaching deadlines in fulfilling contractual agreements; and/or I have supervised inmate/staff work details on the production line; and/or I have prepared schedules regarding furniture installation. None of the above. 5 Supervisory Project Managers are required to develop and manage complex customer service, marketing, and sales programs for multiple customers/agencies. They&nbsp;must possess comprehensive knowledge of multiple products/finishes/part numbers in order to effectively implement plans and programs to increase customer satisfaction. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have visited, inspected areas of responsibility to ensure measures to reduce waste and increase productivity are being utilized by factory employees; and/or I have reassigned workforce to accommodate client requirements for end product; and/or I have maintained inventory of available materials and goods to accommodate deadlines of product completion required by customers. I have developed a marketing strategy for a specific project; and/or I have solicited feedback from customers; and/or I have participated in a monthly financial review for the factory; and/or I have conducted local customer visits to ensure customer satisfaction and to maintain a corporate relationship. I have maintained contact with clients to ensure satisfaction with service and implemented changes required to ensure continued relations; and/or I have recommended methods of implementing a marketing strategy to solicit/attract business from new clients; and/or I have participated in monthly financial meetings to discuss factory sales accomplished and formulate future sales projections; and/or I have served as the subject matter expert in order management and customer relations; and/or I have provided feedback and supporting documentation in regards to customer expectations and corporate objectives. None of the above. 6 Supervisory Project Managers are responsible for preparing technical and non-technical reports, letters and other correspondence for the General Manager. They must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information relative to program area. They develop reports, policies, plans, and other documents used to maintain and/or improve industrial operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared investigative reports; and/or I have prepared lesson plans for internal training classes; and/or I have responded to Congressional or judicial inquiries for a mid-level official; and/or I have prepared recommendations to management regarding legal or policy issue; and/or I have prepared responses to inmate grievance filed at regional level; and/or I have collaborated with colleague to exchange information such as selling strategies or marketing. I have negotiated alternative product designs for new products and components with program managers and/or other high-level representatives of customer agencies, field personnel and contract vendors; and/or I have developed new methods and criteria or proposed new policies to deviate from traditional methods of research of trends or patterns in accomplishing the development of new products; and/or I have provided technical assistance and guidance to staff and others to develop training seminars; and/or I have prepared timeliness, project documentation, and summary reports. I have responded to email request to staff members; and/or I have written a memo for all department heads regarding a newly established procedure; and/or I have reviewed reports/correspondence prior to institution Executive Staff member’s signature; and/or I have written memorandums to department heads/managers explaining status of operation/project; and/or I have completed a monthly operational report for a section; and/or I have proofread and recommended changes to a co-worker’s memorandum/report. None of the above. 7 Supervisory Project Managers must analyze and evaluate a variety of information to ascertain if current programs, processes, and/or procedures are meeting their intended goals for Federal Prison Industries (UNICOR). They&nbsp;must be able to systematically identify, monitor, investigate, and analyze operational and program issues affecting the management of the organization, and must be able to establish appropriate responses or resolutions to both short-term and long-term problems and/or issues encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed program review/operational review summaries and ensured corrective action were initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals; and/or I have shifted priorities between customer orders to maintain a balance at the factory level; and/or I have resolved problems presented by the customer and completed all order modification request; and/or I have used Millennium and/or SAP and various automated processes to perform the functions of order management to meet the demands of order maintenance; and/or I have compiled and analyzed work reports from SAP such as returned authorizations, quality notifications and workload reports. I have identified statistical information on a current program; and/or I have developed budgetary information to meet specific requirements; and/or I have provided input into program objectives; and/or I have assisted in developing performance goals for the department. I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. None of the above. 8 Supervisory Project Managers are responsible for the continuous evaluation of thier&nbsp;subordinate workforce and provides opportunity for growth, training and career development. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assigned and reviewed the work of subordinates; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit/team; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have developed an official staff mentoring program; and/or I have developed a class where employees were cross-trained in various areas other than their specific position; and/or I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions to improve subordinate employee’s job knowledge and performance; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit/team projects and tracked a subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have incorporated training in various division/unit/team/office meetings. I have directed less experienced training instructors in developing, and planning classroom exercises/activities; and/or I have prepared staff performance evaluations which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have served as a supervisor of an organization/unit/team responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).