Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 This series has a basic education requirement that must be met by all applicants. Which of the following best describes how you meet that requirement? Answer to this question is required I have completed a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree (or higher) with a major in archival science or bachelor's degree (or higher) with a major that includes 18 semester hours in archival science, history and/or in political science or government, and 12 semester hours in one or any combination of the following: archival science, history, American civilization, economics, political science, public administration, or government. I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least 30 semester hours of courses as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet the basic education requirement as described above. 2 Choose the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or least equivalent to Grade 09 in the Federal service. I possess a combination of graduate level education as described in "1." above, and appropriate specialized experience as described in "2." above that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Do you have experience managing on-site equipment and software used to digitize analog audiovisual materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following analog audiovisual formats do you have experience digitizing using on-site equipment and software (check all that apply)? Answer to this question is required Motion picture film (16mm or 8mm) Compact sound cassettes 1/4 -inch audio tape VHS videocassettes U-matic videocassettes None of the above 5 Which of the following best describe your experience preparing statements of work, estimates of level of effort of design services, evaluate proposals for design services and participate in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services Answer to this question is required I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in preparing statements of work and estimates or participated in technical discussions. I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussion to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in preparing statements of work and design services estimates and participating in technical discussions, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task . 6 Which of the following best describes your experience making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products, documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department? Answer to this question is required I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products and documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products and documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department. 7 Do you have experience working with current digital preservation and electronic records management and access technologies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position? Answer to this question is required I have experience applying national level archival standards and best practices to the full range of archival processing activities of arrangement, preservation, and description of archival collections documenting the field of American art history. I have experience applying national level archival standards and best practices to at least one or more archival processing activities such as archival arrangement OR archival preservation OR reference services OR archival description of collections related to the field of American art or cultural history. I have completed one or more graduate internships or worked as volunteer processing archival collections. I do not have the experience above. 9 Have you conducted comprehensive collections assessments either for new acquisitions or backlog? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you provided archival appraisal guidance to collecting specialists or other staff on the acquisition of audiovisual formats from collection donors? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which statement best describes your experience processing, arranging, describing, preparing, and scanning historical documents, photographic film and digital materials for electronic description projects and finding aids? Answer to this question is required I have directed staff members in the processing, arrangement, description, preparation, and scanning of documents, historical photographic film and digital materials for electronic description projects and finding aids. I have processed, arranged, described, prepared, and scanned documents and historical photographic materials for electronic description projects and finding aids. I have assisted in the processing, arrangement, description, preparation, and scanning of documents and historical photographic materials for electronic description projects and finding aids. I have no experience with processing, arrangement, description, preparation, and scanning of documents and historical photographic materials for electronic description projects and finding aids. 12 Which of the following media/record formats have you processed (arranged, preserved, described according to national best practices? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Analog sound recordings. Analog video recordings. Motion picture films. Born-digital or primary source electronic records such as word-processed files, DVD’s, and email. Paper documents such as handwritten correspondence and manuscripts, typescript materials, and ledgers. Photographic materials such as prints, negatives, slides. None of the above. 13 Which of the following activities associated with the processing of audiovisual formats have you completed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have processed analog audiovisual formats as a regular part of a job, independently, and usually without guidance by a supervisor or senior employee. I have processed a limited number of analog audiovisual formats, with close supervision. I have provided guidance on processing analog audiovisual formats to collections processing archivists, contractors, and interns. I have taken continuing education courses focusing on the processing of audiovisual content. None of the above. 14 Do you have experience creating archival finding aids according to national standards and best practices, including DACS (Describing Archives: A Content Standard) and EAD (Encoded Archival Description)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have work experience and demonstrated expertise in applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience collaborating with others or working on teams to accomplish work projects? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a central or major part of my work. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.