Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 Training Instructors must communicate with various levels of management, institution departments, individual staff, and groups of students. They present courses of instruction utilizing a variety of lecture techniques and tools including group discussions, role playing, practical exercises, audio-visual aids and handouts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught classes with established lesson plans; and/or I have utilized Corel presentation or another computer software program to present training; and/or I have counseled students and staff concerning performance; and/or I have made recommendations to management regarding new instructional programs; and/or I have presented new information to management and staff. I have taught a formal instructional program to diverse groups; and/or I have developed lesson plans for training programs; and/or I have worked with community-based organizations or committees tasked with recommending solutions to educational problems; and/or I have implemented new instructional programs to increase student participation. I have given presentations in college; and/or I have participated in group discussions to establish consensus or a plan of action; and/or I have completed a public speaking course in college or junior college; and/or I have worked as a teacher's aid in any educational environment. I have given presentations to school systems regarding educational issues; and/or I have facilitated large meetings and/or training; and/or I have persuaded students to participate in volunteer programs; and/or I have been a keynote speaker at a graduation ceremony or conference. None of the above. 3.2 Training Instructors communicate in writing with a variety of people, including management, at all levels of the organizational hierarchy, as well as individuals outside of the organization. In order to convey information effectively, they must be able to communicate clearly to a target audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have proofread and modified existing lesson plans; and/or I have created lesson plans as a member of a group or committee; and/or I have updated instructional program statements to conform with policy changes. I have independently developed lesson plans/curriculum; and/or I have written thesis for advanced graduate or post-graduate research; and/or I have written a detailed article for a published newspaper; and/or I have written a paper for a professional or academic group; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement; and/or I have prepared instructional evaluation programs; and/or I have prepared a detailed report summarizing the results of a project. I have developed proposed student testing procedures; and/or I have created reports, proposals, and draft statements which address specific program needs and were accepted and forwarded to a higher organizational level; and/or I have provided detailed memoranda for my supervisor's approval. I have completed progress reports; and/or I have written incident reports; and/or I have written performance log entries; and/or I have prepared employee performance appraisals. None of the above. 3.3 Training Instructors must have extensive knowledge of various methods of teaching and be able to use this knowledge to instruct and motivate students. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a graduate-level practicum which included the application of instructor skills in more than one area; and/or I have provided training instruction in two or more subject matter areas at the collegiate or national agency training level; and/or I have certified as an instructor for a law enforcement/fire fighter/crisis management training academy; and/or I have taught or provided adult educational instruction in a college-level educational environment. I have provided training or instructed others in a non-educational environment (i.e., led a church or other religious group); and/or I have conducted group counseling; and/or I have worked as a school guidance counselor; and/or I have worked as a counselor in a correctional setting. I have completed a college-level instructor skills program; and/or I have provided training in more than a single subject matter area at the collegiate or national agency training level; and/or I have taught or provided educational instruction in a secondary level educational environment; and/or I have completed the BOP's Training for Trainers course or equivalent. I have supervised inmates or employees; and/or I have coached organized sports or recreational programs for youth groups or adults with learning disabilities; and/or I have taught in a primary level educational environment; and/or I have worked as a literary volunteer or peer tutor. None of the above. 3.4 Training Instructors must have extensive knowledge of Federal Prison System policies and procedures regarding institution operation and control. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in the capacity of assistant department head or cost center manager; and/or I have participated in program and operational reviews of BOP correctional facilities; and/or I have served as resource staff for BOP or other training programs in MSTC/institution based/STA; and/or I have developed post-orders or recommended changes to any BOP security procedures which were approved and implemented locally. I have served as administrative duty officer, institution duty officer, institution executive staff or department head; and/or I have developed Program Statements or Institution Supplements which outlined or delineated security procedures; and/or I have developed training aids and/or lesson plans regarding BOP security procedures; and/or I have recommended changes to any security procedure which was approved and implemented on the national level. I have utilized written policy in day-to-day duties; and/or I have learned BOP security procedures; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of policies relating to a very limited or specialized program area; and/or I have worked as a member of a committee to improve emergency preparedness or institutional supplements; and/or I have worked as a member of an American Correctional Association (ACA) committee; and/or I have participated in an operational review at a correctional facility. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 MOBILITY STATEMENT: A mobility statement is required for this position. Do you agree to relocate at the convenience of the Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Yes, I understand that a mobility statement is required and I agree to relocate at the convenience of the Bureau of Prisons. No, I do not accept the mobility requirement. 6 TENURE LIMITATION: This position has a four-year tenure limitation. At the end of the 4th year, incumbent is subject to geographic relocation to meet the needs of the Agency. It is expected that upon the completion of the 3rd year, incumbent will be seeking positions nationwide. Once an instructor fulfills the tenure limit agreement, the Agency, at its' discretion, will place the employee into an alternative position (same grade) with probability of a geographic relocation. Answer to this question is required Yes, I understand and agree this position is subject to a four (4) year tenure limitation. At the conclusion of the four (4) year tenure limitation, I agree that I will be subject to geographic relocation at the discretion of the agency. No, I do not accept the tenure limitation. 7 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 8 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).