Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for an inmate caseload. He/she is responsible for meeting with inmates to discuss and access re-entry needs and following up on the completion of recommended programs (i.e., facilitating re-entry programs, monitoring special and legal mail, recommending sanctions for disciplinary hearings, visiting inmates housed in the Special Housing Unit, assigning inmates to work details compatible with their skill set, managing inmate quarters/bed assignments, conducting inmate legal calls, conducting inmate orientation into the housing units, processing inmate visiting lists, monitoring inmate telephone calls and emails, processing inmate pay, and a variety of other tasks related to the day-to-day needs of the inmates). Therefore, he/she must be able to organize and prioritize work assignments, as many of the tasks are time sensitive. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used established checklists to accurately complete work assignments, utilized an electronic calendar to monitor deadlines; and/or I have generated frequent rosters to monitor inmate releases and plan work. I have established a daily to-do list to stay on task; and/or I have used a color-coding system to distinguish and manage urgent tasks and priorities assigned by the supervisor; and/or I have reorganized unexpected tasks to meet supervisor’s expectations. I have maintained and updated a database on an emergency response team in accordance with established instructions; and/or I have utilized an established checklist to ensure all required documents were included in the file prior to routing; and/or I have responded to a supervisor’s electronic task manager to indicate the completion of a task in advance of the deadline. None of the above. 3 The Correctional Counselor must review various sources of information (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Reports, Sentry data, Judgment and Commitment Orders, inmate Program Review forms; National Crime Information Center (NCIC), and Bureau policy) pertaining to the inmate and make appropriate determinations and recommendations, based on the data reviewed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed an organization’s policy to answer questions from stakeholders or the public; and/or I have read audit findings to make changes to assigned tasks; and/or I have reviewed and reported suspicious inmate correspondence to prevent possible security breaches; and/or I have provided recommendations to revise policy. I have obtained information to prepare a response to a written inmate request; and/or I have conducted an audit/inventory of accountable property assigned to other departments, as instructed, using an inventory data sheet; and/or I have evaluated inmate disciplinary sanctions to make discipline recommendations to the supervisor; and/or I have retrieved and interpreted information involving sensitive inmate issues (i.e., notification of inmate physical or sexual assault) and reported it to a supervisor, based on policy. I have assisted the supervisor with facilitating training on a specific topic to inmates during intake; and/or I have identified and documented discrepancies/policy deviations during an internal/external audit; and/or I have made recommendations to a supervisor for inmate disciplinary sanctions; and/or I have performed internal audits and submitted findings to the supervisor for further action. None of the above. 4 The Correctional Counselor will develop and facilitate re-entry based group sessions, based on inmate needs assessments. These group sessions may be developed based on local or national initiatives which target inmates&rsquo; individual re-entry needs. The Correctional Counselor conducts classes or group meetings that encourages positive behavior and lifestyle changes, for a successful transition into the community. He/she may rely on the assistance of other agencies to promote effective and informative re-entry programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a brief presentation to a community relations board; and/or I have provided an overview of re-entry programs to peers/colleagues; and/or I have delivered talking points to an inmate population. I have provided instructional guidance to special needs students as a paraprofessional or substitute teacher; and/or I have confirmed group facilitators for a re-entry or recovery group; and/or I have answered general academic questions from potential students at a college or university. I have researched new re-entry programs and provided information to program coordinators; and/or I have reviewed case studies/statistics for re-entry programs for evaluation by a supervisor; and/or I have created handouts and training aids for classroom instruction. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for ensuring the inmate&rsquo;s correctional and programming needs are met on a daily basis while providing supervision and accountability of inmates and maintaining institution security. The majority of inmate&rsquo;s entitlements are outlined in policy. The Correctional Counselor must be familiar with correctional policies and procedures in order to effectively carry out their duties that contribute to the health and welfare of inmates and promote effective communication to reduce litigation and potential conflicts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided detailed work instructions to a specialized inmate work detail (i.e., plumbing crew, infectious disease clean-up crew, inmate suicide observation team); and or I have reviewed an incident report for details and made recommendations during a discipline hearing; and or I have conducted a walkthrough of inmate living areas for compliance of standards and made corrective actions, prior to an audit or assessment. I have searched inmate high alert mail and monitored high alert calls and made the proper notifications in the institution intelligence database for possible security concerns; and or I have responded to an institution disturbance and deployed non-lethal munitions; and or I have maintained accountability for inmates in specialized housing units (i.e., Special Housing Unit (SHU), Special Management Unit (SMU), Administrative Maximum (ADX) Security Unit, Death Row); and or I have provided documentation for an internal/external audit; and or I have conducted mass interviews after an institution emergency. I have prepared and escorted inmates to court hearings/medical appointments; and or I have provided supervision of inmates on suicide watch; and or I have responded to an inmate attempted suicide and assisted with life-saving measures; and or I have provided instructions to inmates housed in a mental health unit. None of the above. 6 Correctional Counselor interacts on a daily basis with inmates, other staff, management, other government agencies, community contacts, and inmate family members. Must be able to communicate effectively with all levels of contacts. He/she must be able to communicate policies in a clear and concise manner, explain institution rules to new inmates, conduct interviews of new inmates during the institution intake process, relay basic information to inmate family members, and develop contacts in the community to assist with the inmate&rsquo;s re-entry transition. He/she must be able to show understanding, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern and politeness to others, which could include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. He/she&nbsp;must relate well to people from varied backgrounds and be aware of cultural differences and race, sex, disabilities, and religious preferences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided instructions to an emergency preparedness team as a team leader in crisis situation; and or I have provided detailed commands to inmates during a disturbance to regain control of the situation; and or I have provided specialized training and guidance to new staff; and or I have presented a leadership class to peers/colleagues. I have provided general instructions to an inmate work detail; and or I have retrieved inmate data to discuss programming with an inmate; and or I have assisted staff with a community re-entry event; and or I have communicated with co-workers/peers as the point of contact to plan an institution-wide program. I have provided detailed instructions to an inmate work detail during a crisis situation; and or I have provided guidance and resource information to veterans, individuals with special needs or disabilities; and or I have provided suggestions to community officials at a community board meeting or civic event that was implemented; and or I have provided security and instructions to participants at a large community event. None of the above. 7 The Correctional Counselor is the primary contact and source of information pertaining to the daily livelihood of the inmates. This includes work and housing unit assignments. He/she must be able to identify signs of inmate stress or tension, potential personality conflicts, and signs of abnormal behavior, either by a single inmate, a group of inmates, and/or the housing unit as a whole. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified the temperament and mood of the inmate population during an institution lockdown and reported the observation to a supervisor; and or I have searched and found contraband when an inmate’s behavior appeared suspicious; and or I have observed and reported an inmate with recent marks or tattoos to the appropriate supervisor. I have conducted a pat search or cell search of a suspicious inmate; and or I have reported and described a suspicious package to authorities; and or I have notified a supervisor of a missing inmate. I have called for medical assistance for an inmate who appeared ill; and or I have recognized an inmate which appeared to be under the influence of intoxicants and reported to an appropriate supervisor; and or I have sought psychological assistance for an inmate after displaying bizarre behavior; and or I have observed and reported a change in an inmate’s behavior, daily activities, social interactions and reported to appropriate staff. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-08 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for an inmate caseload. He/she is responsible for meeting with inmates to discuss and access re-entry needs and following up on the completion of recommended programs (i.e., facilitating re-entry programs, monitoring special and legal mail, recommending sanctions for disciplinary hearings, visiting inmates housed in the Special Housing Unit, assigning inmates to work details compatible with their skill set, managing inmate quarters/bed assignments, conducting inmate legal calls, conducting inmate orientation into the housing units, processing inmate visiting lists, monitoring inmate telephone calls and emails, processing inmate pay and a variety of other tasks related to the day-to-day needs of the inmates). Therefore, he/she must be able to organize and prioritize work assignments, as many of the tasks are time sensitive. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently planned and organized daily work assignments to meet supervisor’s goals; and/or I have maintained a calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completing prior to the established deadline; and/or I have independently planned and organized own work while simultaneously assisting peers to complete assigned tasks by the established deadline; and/or I have set priorities for the department, and planned, organized and monitored tasks to achieve the priorities. I have re-prioritized workflow, due to an unexpected task and met the original deadline; and/or I have monitored rosters/reports to identify a status change to initiate a work product; and/or I have scheduled reoccurring assignments/tasks on a calendar to prioritize weekly workflow and meet deadlines. I have maintained and updated a database on an emergency response team in accordance with established instructions; and/or I have utilized an established checklist to ensure all required documents were included in the file prior to routing; and/or I have responded to a supervisor’s electronic task manager to indicate the completion of a task in advance of the deadline. None of the above. 3 The Correctional Counselor must review various sources of information (i.e., Pre-Sentence Investigation Reports, Sentry data, Judgment and Commitment Orders, inmate Program Review forms; National Crime Information Center (NCIC), and Bureau policy) pertaining to the inmate and make appropriate determinations and recommendations, based on the data reviewed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed grievances to assess the validity of the complaint and prepared a response for review by the Legal Department; and/or I have evaluated inmate court documents for security concerns/programming needs; and/or I have deciphered embedded words in inmate emails and correspondence for security violations or illegal activity that prevented a disturbance; and/or I have led an external/internal audit for policy compliance and recommended corrective actions, based on policy that were implemented; and/or I have autonomously reviewed and interpreted internal/external audit findings to make corrective actions to daily tasks and assignments without direction from a supervisor. I have obtained information to prepare a response to a written inmate request; and/or I have conducted an audit/inventory of accountable property assigned to other departments, as instructed, using an inventory data sheet; and/or I have evaluated inmate disciplinary sanctions to make discipline recommendations to the supervisor; and/or I have retrieved and interpreted information involving sensitive inmate issues (i.e., notification of inmate physical or sexual assault) and reported it to a supervisor, based on policy. I have processed National Crime Information Center (NCIC) data and recommended approval/disapproval, based on potential security risks; and/or I have revised incident reports describing prohibited acts based on additional information (i.e., witness statements, video evidence); and/or I have revised existing policy to incorporate new initiatives and policy guidelines; and/or I have reviewed policy and drafted discrepancies as part of an internal/external audit review team for review by the lead reviewer; and/or I have audited generated reports/budgets and reported anomalies to management. None of the above. 4 The Correctional Counselor is the primary contact and source of information pertaining to the daily livelihood of the inmates. This includes work and housing unit assignments. He/she must be able to identify signs of inmate stress or tension, potential personality conflicts, and signs of abnormal behavior, either by a single inmate, a group of inmates, and/or the housing unit as a whole. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported a window, cell or locking device with evidence of tampering; and/or I have maintained visual contact and verbally engaged an inmate threatening bodily harm to himself/herself or others, until assistance arrived; and/or I have observed and secured an inmate with injuries consistent with being involved in a physical altercation; and/or I have independently secured and reported a potential crime scene. I have called for medical assistance for an inmate who appeared ill; and/or I have recognized an inmate which appeared to be under the influence of intoxicants and reported to an appropriate supervisor; and/or I have sought psychological assistance for an inmate after displaying bizarre behavior; and/or I have observed and reported a change in an inmate’s behavior, daily activities, social interactions and reported to appropriate staff. I have convinced inmates to cease fighting or relinquish weapons to avoid a potentially dangerous situation; and/or I have independently conducted an internal/external search of an area or facility due to an alleged or attempted escape; and/or I have observed and reported inmate interactions to identify the leaders of disruptive groups in order to isolate them from the general population; and/or I have negotiated with a hostage taker and regained control of a potentially dangerous situation; and/or I have performed life-saving measures on an inmate or individual in medical distress; and/or I have talked a suicidal individual in distress out of committing the act and referred them to the appropriate emergency/psychological staff. None of the above. 5 The Correctional Counselor will develop and facilitate re-entry based group sessions, based on inmate needs assessments.&nbsp; These group sessions may be developed based on local or national initiatives which target inmates&rsquo; individual re-entry needs. The Correctional Counselor conducts classes or group meetings that encourages positive behavior and lifestyle changes, for a successful transition into the community. He/she may rely on the assistance of other agencies to promote effective and informative re-entry programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a brief presentation to a community relations board; and/or I have provided an overview of re-entry programs to peers/colleagues; and/or I have delivered talking points to an inmate population. I have taught self-defense, fire-arms, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) for staff on a recurring basis at a correctional facility as a lead instructor; and/or I have developed curriculum lesson plans and training aids for recurring staff training; and/or I have instructed students as a teacher or college professor in a school setting; and/or I have coordinated an inmate re-entry program with other agencies (i.e., Social Security Administration, Veterans Administration, Probation Office, Court Diversion); and/or I have created and taught a training program that was implemented by another agency. I have provided instruction to students as a substitute teacher; and/or I have facilitated a re-entry program or wellness/recovery group; and/or I have presented information in the absence of the supervisor for an inmate orientation program; and/or I have revised a training program to accommodate the needs of the participants. None of the above. 6 The Correctional Counselor is responsible for ensuring the inmate&rsquo;s correctional and programming needs are met on a daily basis in preparation for release while providing supervision and accountability of inmates and maintaining institution security.&nbsp; The majority of inmate&rsquo;s entitlements are outlined in policy.&nbsp; The Correctional Counselor must be familiar with correctional policies and procedures in order to effectively carry out their duties that contribute to the health and welfare of inmates and promote effective communication to reduce litigation and potential conflicts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated counseling groups in a correctional environment to meet re-entry needs; and/or I have recommended inmate programming in a work group; and/or I have secured a crime scene and collected evidence with minimal supervision in accordance with policy; and/or I have initiated random urine analyses to inmates according to policy and secured the sample; and/or I have assisted with an investigation regarding a Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) allegation; and/or I have initiated a threat assessment involving multiple inmates; and/or I have explained daily operating procedures to staff and inmates to ensure the safe and orderly running of the institution. I have interpreted National Crime Investigation Center (NCIC) reports to determine security risks for entry into the institution; and/or I have independently made decisions for specialized inmate programming; and/or I have autonomously issued disciplinary sanctions to enforce rules and regulations; and/or I have coordinated counseling groups amongst several departments in a correctional environment to promote inmate re-entry needs; and/or I have led an external/internal audit for policy compliance and recommended corrective actions that were implemented; and/or I have developed instructional guides/policies that were adopted by an organization. I have searched inmate high alert mail and monitored high alert calls and made the proper notifications in the institution intelligence database for possible security concerns; and or I have responded to an institution disturbance and deployed non-lethal munitions; and or I have maintained accountability for inmates in specialized housing units (i.e., Special Housing Unit (SHU), Special Management Unit (SMU), Administrative Maximum (ADX) Security Unit, Death Row); and or I have provided documentation for an internal/external audit; and or I have conducted mass interviews after an institution emergency. None of the above. 7 Correctional Counselor interacts on a daily basis with inmates, other staff, management, other government agencies, community contacts, and inmate family members. Must be able to communicate effectively with all levels of contacts. He/she must be able to communicate policies in a clear and concise manner, explain institution rules to new inmates, conduct interviews of new inmates during the institution intake process, relay basic information to inmate family members, and develop contacts in the community to assist with the inmate&rsquo;s re-entry transition. He/she must be able to show understanding, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern and politeness to others, which could include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. He/she must relate well to people from varied backgrounds and be aware of cultural differences and race, sex, disabilities, and religious preferences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided instructions to an emergency preparedness team as a team leader in crisis situation; and/or I have provided detailed commands to inmates during a disturbance to regain control of the situation; and/or I have provided specialized training and guidance to new staff; and/or I have presented a leadership class to peers/colleagues. I have provided guidance to individuals on a suicide prevention or domestic abuse hotline; and/or I have provided mediation services in the community or for a local agency; and/or I have responded to an emergency situation and rendered medical assistance to distressed individuals; and/or I have engaged in confrontational avoidance during a calculated use of force situation; and/or I have facilitated a re-entry program or wellness/recovery group (i.e., Anger Management, Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous, etc.). I have organized a re-entry program with a local, state or federal agency/organization (i.e., Veterans Administration, United States Parole Commission, One Stop Career Center or financial institution); and or I have coordinated with an agency to secure inmate identification (i.e., state identification or birth certificate); and or I have presented training in the community on Bureau of Prisons re-entry programs; and or I have based on a meeting with another agency, written a draft Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for review by a supervisor. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).