Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and&nbsp;educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, and meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Oncology Nurses must have an extensive knowledge of oncology care principles, practices and procedures and be able to apply it therapeutically to meet patient needs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned, implemented and evaluated nursing care; and/or I have analyzed patient outcomes to determine effectiveness of interventions; and/or I have assimilated quality management data into the planning and development of nursing care; and/or I have performed nurse care surveys as prescribed by an external healthcare accreditation organization and initiated corrective actions; and/or I have participated in multi-disciplinary teams to update treatment plans and completed corrective actions; and/or I have participated in emergencies and code situations; and/or I have taught nursing care principles, practices and procedures to other nurses; and/or I have completed biochemical training; and/or I have certified in Oncology Nursing (OCN); and/or I am Peripherally Inserted Central Catheter (PICC) Certified; and/or I have accessed ports and placed difficult intravenous accesses. I have assisted in executing doctors’ orders; and/or I have reported and/or documented patient responses to nursing care; and/or I have initiated and maintained intravenous therapy. I have observed and assessed the patient conditions and determined the proper course of action; and/or I have administered infrequently used or special medications (i.e., chemotherapy medications, continuous intravenous medication infusions); and/or I have initiated an emergency response and operated special equipment; and/or I have set up and operated equipment (i.e. cardiac monitors, arterial lines, respirators, defibrillators, endotracheal suction equipment); and/or I have closely observed post-operative and seriously ill patients for adverse conditions and reactions; and/or I have provided emergency treatment; and/or I am proficient in intravenous therapy/techniques. None of the above. 5 Oncology Nurses must have thorough knowledge of safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment along with an understanding of infection control procedures and universal precautions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided care and/or recommendations while working as a nurse in a hospital, clinic or community based setting or as a member of a committee specializing in infection control and disease prevention issues; and/or I have developed and provided training sessions on nosocomial infections, blood borne or airborne diseases, or provided instruction to patients on managing their infectious or chronic disease; and/or I have written procedures on nosocomial infections and disease prevention; and/or I have analyzed responses to fire and disaster drills to determine areas in need of improvement; and/or I have completed hazardous material(Hazmat) training; and/or I have participated in chemotherapy spill/cleanup for toxic chemicals. I have completed dressing changes on an human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or immune-compromised patients; and/or I have administered intravenous medication to a patient with blood borne pathogens; and/or I have worked with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patients on an extensive basis; and/or I have recommended safety practices on prevention of needle sticks and contamination that have been adopted; and/or I have monitored patient outcomes in regards to infectious disease management; and/or I have applied safety principles to patient care environment; and/or I have completed bio-chemical training. I have identified a potential tuberculosis (TB) patient or isolation case, alerted staff and ensured that appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures and precautions; and/or I have worked with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patients on a limited basis and closely adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have participated in fire and disaster drills. None of the above. 6 Oncology Nurses must have the ability to assess patients&rsquo; needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan. Experience gained must be in a hospital or clinical setting.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed, planned, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and subacute beds for patients with multi-system organ failures such as end stage liver disease, respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure; and/or I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management; and/or I have developed individualized patient care plans based upon assessments, policies, guidelines, and standards of practice. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (i.e., a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have reported changes with patient status based upon observations and assessments; and/or I have attended a bio-chemical class. I have reviewed patient care plans and ensured corrective actions are initiated; and/or I have completed quality review of policies and procedures for care and treatment; and/or I have conveyed treatment team goals to obtain optimal patient compliance; and/or I have recognized patient deviations from normal and provided appropriate treatment and follow-up; and/or I have incorporated concepts of preventive measures into assessment of patient needs and patient education; and/or I have revised plan of care based upon assessment of patient needs; and/or I have accessed central lines/peripheral accesses; and/or I am a certified infusion nurse. None of the above. 7 Oncology Nurses must have a comprehensive knowledge of rehabilitative nursing, pre-and post-operative care/treatment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or I have, as a charge nurse or team leader, facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. I have conveyed information at conferences with health care officials, at public health forums, or with officials in private organizations; and/or I have taught classes for nursing students; and/or I have served as a facilitator at a public meeting regarding nursing/health care. I have worked as Supervisory Clinical Nurse, Rehabilitation Nurse Specialist, Team Leader/Charge Nurse in a nursing unit (i.e., Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU) or Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU)); and/or I have developed and coordinated care plans for rehabilitative, pre-and post-operative patients; and/or I have provided staff and patient education for implementation of care plans. None of the above. 8 Oncology Nurses must be able to express ideas and instructions to a variety of individuals with complex backgrounds. He/she must possess verbal communication skills in order to exchange technical medical information with other medical professionals, explain procedures to inmates, and convey information concisely and effectively to others both internal and external to the organization.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used persuasive communication with hostile or confrontational individuals (i.e., inmates); and/or I have exchanged complex information at conferences with health care officials, at public forums, or with officials in private organizations; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual situation and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed and directed oncology nursing staff on patient case information; and/or I have provided complex oncology education for colleagues in other health care discipline-specific professionals (i.e., nurses, mid-level providers (MLPs), other medical staff and patients). I have given technical presentations at nursing conferences; and/or I have taught basic life support in the community; and/or I have led/mentored nursing staff regarding daily duties; and/or I have communicated and taught patients pertaining to individual medical needs; and/or I have reported highly unusual medical or correctional issues to supervisors and/or management for proper action. I have assigned routine work assignments to nursing staff and/or inmates; and/or I have successfully directed/explained and/or assisted staff in the performance of job functions; and/or I have conveyed verbal emotional support to patients and/or families prior to the beginning of treatment; and/or I have provided patient educational sessions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).