Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Trust Fund Specialists are responsible for implementation, administration, and coordination of programs and operations, including Commissary, Inmate Telephone (TRUFONE), Trust Fund Limited Inmate Computer System (TRULINCS), Inmate Deposit Fund, Warehouse and Laundry/Clothing Issue. They must analyze, resolve, troubleshoot, and report problems in the systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved non-complex automated operational system problems; and/or I have performed general maintenance and trouble shooting on automated systems and/or applications; and/or I have provided guidance and training for staff regarding basic functions in an automated program (i.e., Fund Control or similar type program). I have provided technical assistance and training to executive staff, department heads, staff, and/or inmates regarding programs, operational areas and/or systems/applications; and/or I have maintained/monitored inmate accounts and/or reviewed/evaluated TRUNET/TRULINKS (all applications) reports to identify, research, and/or resolve/report unusual/suspicious activity. I have prepared budget and/or accounting documents and reports; and/or I have keyed transactions and maintained accounting records; and/or I have conducted sales using a point-of-sale system/application; and/or I have maintained accountability and security for inventory; and/or I have performed customer service functions (i.e., resolved customer complaints, assisted callers with inquiries, directing customer to appropriate department). I have performed Deposit Fund duties, including inmate payroll, Financial Responsibility Program (FRP) processes, inmate withdrawals, inmate restrictions, encumbrances. None of the above. 5 Trust Fund Specialists organize work, set priorities, determine departmental, operational, and program resource requirements, coordinate with departmental staff and other departments to accomplish goals, monitor progress and evaluate outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed duties in various operational areas, moving between each area numerous times on a daily basis, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have developed checklists to ensure efficient work flow and policy requirements were accomplished and maintained; and/or I have coordinated with multiple departments to provide guidance, training, and assistance regarding an operational, program, or system issue. I have printed and evaluated reports and information received from staff regarding problematic operations, programs, systems and/or applications and coordinated with the appropriate staff to ensure corrective action; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to ensure the accomplishment of all assignments and projects; and/or I have routinely evaluated accomplishments to ensure all daily requirements/tasks were completed by the end of the work day. I have complied with policy for established deadlines; and/or I have followed priorities established by supervisor in completing routine duties/functions; and/or I have maintained pre-developed assignment and due date tracking system. None of the above. 6 Trust Fund Specialists work with staff within the Trust Fund Department, staff from other departments throughout the institution, and inmates to assess their needs, and provide expertise, guidance, technical assistance, training and resolve problems regarding Trust Fund programs, operations, systems, and applications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized existing training material to facilitate sharing information with others; and/or I have worked with co-workers from other sections in order to maintain staff coverage for each section; and/or I have provided basic clerical assistance to other departments and they, in turn, reciprocated. I have implemented solutions and provided direct assistance to staff and inmates regarding system/application functionality; and/or I have prepared responses to "Inmate Requests to Staff Members" (Cop-Outs) or electronic messages from inmates regarding Trust Fund/Deposit Fund operational, system, and/or application issues. I have participated in affirmative action committee activities; and/or I have served as representative from office for Combined Federal Campaign; and/or I have served as community volunteer; and/or I have worked/communicated with peers (co-workers) in order to set up a facility/office event; and/or I have been an active member on Student Council Committee; and/or I have assisted work group in gathering information for the topic to be addressed. I have communicated directly with inmates during mainline or conducted open house and researched and resolved inmate account issues, and provided accurate and timely responses regarding the outcome; and/or I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers. None of the above. 7 Trust Fund Specialists identify the need for information/data and know where and/or how to gather the information. They organize and maintain information/data and/or information systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized existing spreadsheets in Lotus 123, Excel or similar type applications to complete tasks; and/or I have identified the appropriate records/data to complete a project; and/or I have maintained office files as required by policy or institution procedures; and/or i have acquired, retrieved, organized and maintained data/information. I have served as a systems administrator; and/or I have served as a TRUACCESS roll manager, assigning access rights to employees; and/or I have worked with others to correct system/application errors/malfunctions. I have retrieved and provided files from a systematic arrangement for supervisor upon request; and/or I have utilized basic functions of word processing and/or e-mail application to store electronic files; and/or I have used established procedures for maintenance of documentation and files; and/or I have established and utilized an electronic group calendar to assign tasks and monitor progress. I have processed and maintained records/data in regard to security requirements, such as NCICs, vouchering and fingerprinting, for contractors/volunteers; and/or I have monitored a departmental budget, including assigning fund control numbers, generating and monitoring reports and reconciling planned against actual expenditures. None of the above. 8 Trust Fund Specialists perform Financial Management-related administration, maintenance, and workflow functions within the Trust Fund Department in regard to budget, accounting, and procurement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with formulating and requesting a budget for the Department's cost centers; and/or I have processed purchases for supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, using the Government purchase card. I have processed various inmate accounting transactions timely and followed-up on and corrected issues identified by the department head; and/or I have performed various inventories within the institution; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have used financial management policy to process purchases, travel, inmate payroll, etc. I have processed accounting/inmate account functions/transactions accurately and researched unusual situations and recommended solutions; and/or I have participated as a team member for operational reviews of various disciplines within the institution, or on Program Reviews of other institution Trust Fund or Business Office. I have prepared documentation for purchases of supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, using the proper forms and format; and/or I have keyed recurring accounting transactions using established procedures; and/or I have located fund control documents and/or files and provided them to the supervisor upon request. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Trust Fund Specialists organize work, set priorities, determine departmental, operational, and program resource requirements, coordinate with departmental staff and other departments to accomplish goals, monitor progress and evaluate outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed duties in various operational areas, moving between each area numerous times on a daily basis, ensuring deadlines were met; and/or I have developed checklists to ensure efficient work flow and policy requirements were accomplished and maintained; and/or I have coordinated with multiple departments to provide guidance, training, and assistance regarding an operational, program, or system issue. I have prioritized individual and departmental tasks and conducted follow-up to ensure budgeting, procurement, resources, property accountability and system maintenance & security requirements were accomplished timely. I have printed and evaluated reports and information received from staff regarding problematic operations, programs, systems and/or applications and coordinated with the appropriate staff to ensure corrective action; and/or I have utilized an established tracking system to ensure the accomplishment of all assignments and projects; and/or I have routinely evaluated accomplishments to ensure all daily requirements/tasks were completed by the end of the work day. I have successfully maintained individual workload, while providing guidance and assistance to staff, including staff from other departments; and/or I have determined local resources necessary and coordinated efforts for accomplishing a new program implementation and/or emergency repair of a system malfunction. None of the above. 5 Trust Fund Specialists work with staff within the Trust Fund Department, staff from other departments throughout the institution, and inmates to assess their needs, and provide expertise, guidance, technical assistance, training and resolve problems regarding Trust Fund programs, operations, systems, and applications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented solutions and provided direct assistance to staff and inmates regarding system/application functionality; and/or I have prepared responses to "Inmate Requests to Staff Members" (Cop-Outs) or electronic messages from inmates regarding Trust Fund/Deposit Fund operational, system, and/or application issues. I have communicated with and provided training verbally and/or in writing to a group regarding departmental operations, systems and applications; and/or I have developed a reference or procedural guide to assist with the accomplishment of Trust Fund-related functions by staff and/or inmates. I have communicated directly with inmates during mainline or conducted open house and researched and resolved inmate account issues, and provided accurate and timely responses regarding the outcome; and/or I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers. I have participated in affirmative action committee activities; and/or I have served as representative from office for Combined Federal Campaign; and/or I have served as community volunteer; and/or I have worked/communicated with peers (co-workers) in order to set up facility/office event; and/or I have been an active member on Student Council Committee; and/or I have assisted work group in gathering information for the topic to be addressed. I have organized a work group to discuss new policy and the implementation of the policy; and/or I have provided training to co-workers or other department staff concerning travel, fund control, personnel procedures, etc., to fulfill a training need within the organization. None of the above. 6 Trust Fund Specialists perform Financial Management-related administration, maintenance, and workflow functions within the Trust Fund Department in regard to budget, accounting, and procurement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have processed various inmate accounting transactions timely and followed-up on and corrected issues identified by the department head; and/or I have performed various inventories within the institution; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have used financial management policy to process purchases, travel, inmate payroll, etc. I have developed and managed a department budget; and/or I have used analytical comparisons of historical cost data and ensured the department budgets were maintained within allotted funds; and/or I have approved purchases for supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, ensuring purchases were in compliance with purchasing regulations. I have assisted with formulating and requesting a budget for the Department's cost centers; and/or I have processed purchases for supplies, equipment and Commissary sales items, using the Government purchase card. I have ensured accounting functions/transactions to FMIS, TRUFACS, TRUFONE, and TRULINCS were completed accurately and all systems are reconciled monthly; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed financial records and made recommendations to improve procedures and processes to benefit the overall operation; and/or I have performed functions as the team lead during internal audits or operational reviews of the Trust Fund Department and/or Business Office. I have processed accounting/inmate account functions/transactions accurately and researched unusual situations and recommended solutions; and/or I have participated as a team member for operational reviews of various disciplines within the institution, or on Program Reviews of other institution Trust Fund or Business Office. None of the above. 7 Trust Fund Specialists identify the need for information/data and know where and/or how to gather the information. They organize and maintain information/data and/or information systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved and/or generated Trust Fund data from multiple Trust Fund applications and/or sources and provided it to multiple end users; and/or I have identified system/application errors/malfunction and independently implemented corrective measures. I have utilized existing spreadsheets in Excel or similar type applications to complete tasks; and/or I have identified the appropriate records/data to complete a project; and/or I have maintained office files as required by policy or institution procedures; and/or I have acquired, retrieved, organized and maintained data/information. I have served as a systems administrator; and/or I have served as a TRUACCESS roll manager, assigning access rights to employees; and/or I have worked with others to correct system/application errors/malfunctions. I have generated and monitored reports regarding inmate accounts, money and spending patterns, inventories, and system usage; and/or I have created spreadsheets using complex formulas and intra-dependent worksheets in Excel or similar type applications, which improved the accuracy and effectiveness of the departmental operations. I have processed and maintained records/data in regard to security requirements, such as NCICs, vouchering and fingerprinting, for contractors/volunteers; and/or I have monitored a departmental budget, including assigning fund control numbers, generating and monitoring reports and reconciling planned against actual expenditures. None of the above. 8 Trust Fund Specialist are responsible for implementation, administration, and coordination of Trust Fund programs and operations, including Commissary services, Inmate Telephone services (TRUFONE), Trust Fund Limited Inmate Computer System services (TRULINCS), Inmate Deposit Fund services, Institution Warehouse services and Institution Laundry and Clothing Issue services. Additionally, they use their working knowledge of the Trust Fund network systems, system administration and applications to analyze, resolve, troubleshoot, and report problems in the systems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed the duties of team leader or point of contact/liaison during the implementation or initiation of a new automated system, application, program, or operational area; and/or I have served as acting Trust Fund Supervisor, assuming all responsibilities and authority thereof, during an extended absence, or transition period. I have provided technical assistance and training to executive staff, department heads, staff, and/or inmates regarding programs, operational areas and/or systems/applications; and/or I have performed Deposit Fund duties, including inmate payroll, Financial Responsibility Program (FRP) processes, inmate withdrawals, inmate restrictions, encumbrances. I have provided job specific assistance/training to staff at one or more other facilities; and/or I have developed and/or provided oversight and guidance during the preparation or re-write of an internal policy and/or procedures guide; and/or I have participated as a team member during a Trust Fund operational review/or equivalent. I have prepared budget and/or accounting documents and reports; and/or I have keyed transactions and maintained accounting records; and/or I have conducted sales using a point-of-sale system/application; and/or I have maintained accountability and security for inventory; and/or I have performed customer service functions (i.e., resolved customer complaints, assisted callers with inquiries, directing customer to appropriate department). I have maintained/monitored inmate accounts and/or reviewed/evaluated TRUNET/TRULINKS (all applications) reports to identify, research, and/or resolve/report unusual/suspicious activity. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).