Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Business Administrators must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the preparation or reconciliation of proof checks; and/or I have trained or knowledgeable of obligation process; and/or I have reviewed financial reports to ensure the buildings and facilities projects are not over obligated. I have reviewed proof checks; and/or I have analyzed obligations and discovered errors; and/or I have determined buildings and facilities project should be capitalized or expensed. I have assisted with the reviewing of proof checks; and/or I have reviewed obligations; and/or I have assisted in making a determination if buildings and facilities project should be capitalized or expensed. None of the above. 5 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized budget data for quarterly/annual budget submissions; and/or I have prepared quarterly and annual financial reports; and/or I have completed one federal budget training course. I have assisted in the preparation of annual budget requests; and/or I have followed established guidelines/user guides for operating fund control program and/or local financial management systems; and/or I have completed one college level course in Accounting. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new Department Heads/Cost Center Managers. None of the above. 6 Business Administrators must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prioritized work flow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have analyzed workflow and made recommendation to supervisor; and/or I have met the due date for a project; and/or I have adjusted duties of others, with supervisor’s approval, to respond to immediate needs. I have insured due dates were met for sectional project; and/or I have adjusted staff priorities to respond to sectional requirements/needs; and/or I have analyzed workflow of peers or subordinates and made recommendations to supervisor. None of the above. 7 Business Administrators must be able to prepare written correspondence and reports and be able to give oral presentations on financial matters to other department heads, executives, and regional staff. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed lesson plan and presented training to other staff and/or inmates; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for meetings with co-workers; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for financial staff; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for department head meetings; and/or I have prepared financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have conducted informal training for staff; and/or I have provided input into the reports and exhibits for meetings with co-workers; and/or I have provided financial information for the preparation of financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). None of the above. 8 Business Administrators must be able to enter and retrieve data from automated financial systems. They also gather and analyze data from automated financial systems. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed obligation reports to assist with fund control or ensured cost centers are not over obligated; and/or I have reviewed personal or real property reports for accuracy; and/or I have completed one training course on automated financial systems. I have operated Fund Control programs; and/or I have submitted payments in the financial management information system; and/or I have generated reports from financial management information system needed to prepare proof-checks. I have certified payments in the financial management information system; and/or I have certified allotments and/or reprogrammed funds in the Budget Module; and/or I have posted new entries in sentry property management systems or sentry real property management system. None of the above. 9 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of purchasing and inventory practices to oversee the purchasing and inventory operations. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared request for purchase; and/or I have assisted accountable property officer in identifying inventory in his/her area; and/or I have reconciled monthly purchase card statement. I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of the terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have reviewed inventory records to determine any discrepancies. I have assisted with property walk-thru; and/or I have received Federal Credit Card training; and/or I have worked with contracting officer to resolve discrepancies in purchase orders or contacts. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Business Administrators must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the reviewing of proof checks; and/or I have reviewed obligations; and/or I have assisted in making a determination if B&F project should be capitalized or expensed I have detected errors on proof checks and returned them for corrective actions; and/or I have discovered errors in obligations, analyzed the problem, and directed corrective action; and/or I have determined B&F projects should be a capitalized or expensed and monitored the accounting entries. I have reviewed proof checks; and/or I analyzed obligations and discovered errors; and/or I have determined B&F projects should be capitalized or expensed. None of the above. 5 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized budget data for quarterly/annual budget submissions; and/or I have prepared quarterly and annual financial reports; and/or I have completed one (1) federal budget training course. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new department heads/cost center managers. I have restructured budget transactions to determine errors and omissions; and/or I have compared the CORS or Expenditure and Allotment (E&A) reports to the FMIS-DBM reports to ensure plans balance; and/or I have developed budgets consistent with agency guidelines at the local level. None of the above. 6 Business Administrators must be able to enter and retrieve data as well as, gather and analyze data from automated financial systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have operated Fund Control programs; and/or I have submitted payments in FMIS; and/or I have generated reports from FMIS needed to prepare proof checks. I have reviewed and resolved error messages produced from automated accounting systems; and/or I have provided training and assistance to others in using the automated financial systems (FMIS, Fund Control, SPMS, SRPMS); and/or I have conducted research and provided explanations of variances using automated financial systems. I have certified payments in FMIS; and/or I have certified allotments and/or reprogrammed funds in the Budget Module; and/or I have posted new entries in SPMS or SRPMS. None of the above. 7 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of purchasing and inventory practices to oversee the purchasing and inventory operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with property walk-thru; and/or I have received Federal Credit Card training; and/or I have worked with contracting officers to resolve discrepancies in purchase orders or contacts. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchasing and contract actions will be competitive or sole source; and/or I have reviewed statements of work; and/or I have reviewed inventory records and assisted in correcting discrepancies in inventory records. I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of the terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have reviewed inventory records to determine any discrepancies. None of the above. 8 Business Administrators must be able to supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed current financial operations to develop new procedures or made adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have performed long range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to due date. I have ensured due dates were met for sectional projects; and/or I have adjusted staff priorities to respond to sectional requirements/needs; and/or I have analyzed workflow of peers or subordinates and made recommendations to supervisors. I have prioritized workflow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workloads to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. None of the above. 9 Business Administrators must be able to prepare written correspondence and reports and be able to give oral presentations on financial matters to other department heads, executives and regional staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for financial staff; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits, and presented financial information for department head meetings; and/or I have prepared financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have reviewed lesson plans and presented training to other staff and/or inmates; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits, and presented financial information for meetings with co-workers; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for department heads and program managers; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information at budget meetings at the executive staff level; and/or I have reviewed and ensured accuracy of accounting information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).