Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 [344] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-15 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [72239] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience overseeing research and analysis in support of development of a national Positioning, Navigation, and Timing ( PNT)&nbsp; architecture to identify, implement, and facilitate adoption of Complementary PNT technologies for increased PNT resiliency? &nbsp;This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [50933] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience performing radio frequency spectrum management and analysis functions in transportation related fields? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be rescored or removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [72240] Choose the statement that best describes your experience related to radio frequency spectrum engineering and systems analysis regarding spectrum management and assessment of the impact of harmful radio frequency interference on systems. Answer to this question is required I have education and training in the application of radio frequency spectrum engineering and systems analysis concepts/disciplines of spectrum management and assessment of the impact of harmful radio frequency interference on systems, but have not performed it on the job. I have applied radio frequency spectrum engineering and systems analysis concepts/disciplines of spectrum management and assessment of the impact of harmful radio frequency interference on systems, usually under the direction of a supervisor or senior employee. I have independently applied radio frequency spectrum engineering and systems analysis concepts/disciplines of spectrum management and assessment of the impact of harmful radio frequency interference on systems, while seeking help or advice only for complex issues or challenges. . I have applied the skills involved and managed a research or evaluation program requiring the application of radio frequency spectrum engineering and systems analysis concepts/disciplines of spectrum management and assessment of harmful radio frequency interference on systems that impact the use of these systems in transportation and other civilian application domains with little or no direct supervision. I have extensive demonstrated work managing research or evaluation programs that require the application of radio frequency spectrum engineering and systems analysis concepts/disciplines of spectrum management and assessment of the impact of harmful radio frequency interference on systems in order to address complex spectrum challenges that impact the use of systems in transportation and other civilian application domains with little or no direct supervision. 5 [72241] Select the response that best describes your level of engineering knowledge related to electronic or telecommunications equipment and designs. Answer to this question is required My education and/or experience include a degree and experience in electronics, plus education or experience in telecommunications theory or equipment. My education and/or experience include a degree and experience in electronics with limited education or experience in telecommunications theory or equipment. My education and/or experience include a degree or a qualifying combination of education and experience in electronics, but no education or experience in telecommunications theory or equipment. My education and/or experience include a degree or qualifying education and experience in a related engineering field (e.g. signals/systems engineering), plus includes experience in designing or modifying electronic and telecommunications equipment. analysis concepts/disciplines of spectrum management and assessment of harmful radio frequency interference on systems that impact the use of these systems in transportation and other civilian application domains with little or no direct supervision. My education and/or experience does not include a degree or working experience in electronics 6 [5411] Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to the application of engineering, systems analysis, and related disciplines to the identification, assessment, and development of Global Positioning System (GPS) and related system capabilities in order to address position, navigation, and/or timing challenges that impact the use of these systems in transportation and other civil application domains. Answer to this question is required I have education and training in the application of engineering and systems analysis concepts / disciplines to the identification, assessment, and development of Global Positioning System (GPS) and related system capabilities, but have not performed it on the job. I have applied engineering and systems analysis concepts / disciplines to the identification, assessment, and development of Global Positioning System (GPS) and related system capabilities, usually under the direction of a supervisor or senior employee. I have independently applied engineering and systems analysis concepts / disciplines to the identification, assessment, and development of Global Positioning System (GPS) and related system capabilities in order to address position, navigation, and/or timing challenges while seeking help or advice only for complex issues or challenges. I have applied the skills involved and managed a research or evaluation program requiring the application engineering and systems analysis concepts / disciplines to the identification, assessment, and development of Global Positioning System (GPS) and related system capabilities in order to address position, navigation, and/or timing challenges that impact the use of these systems in transportation and other civil application domains with little or no direct supervision. I have extensive demonstrated work managing research or evaluation programs that require the application of engineering and systems analysis concepts / disciplines to the identification, assessment, and development of Global Positioning System (GPS) and related system capabilities in order to address complex position, navigation, and/or timing challenges that impact the use of these systems in transportation and other civil application domains with little or no direct supervision. None of the above. 7 [72242] Select the statement(s) that describe your contracting experience. This experience should be reflected on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have written technical statement(s) of work for science, engineering, research and development contracts. I have participated in the source selection process for competitive procurements. I have prioritized and budgeted for science, engineering, research and development contracts. I have served as the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. None of the above. 8 [72243] Select the statement that best reflects your experience in analyzing engineering- related problems and proposing solutions. Answer to this question is required I have no direct experience in this level of analysis or problem solving. I have assessed the accuracy of underlying data and algorithms used by others to assess cost, schedule, or other important aspects of program development. I have conducted a full analysis of facts, data and algorithms and developed options and recommendations for addressing significant problems during program development. I have done 2 and 3 above and also prepared written reports documenting the process. I have done 2, 3, and 4 above, and I have participated in the actual process of negotiating the implementation of recommendations designed to address significant problems during program development. 9 [72244] Select the response(s) that describe your experience preparing written technical material. Answer to this question is required I have written and presented technical information for internal and external audiences. I have written and presented field observation I have prepared and presented technical issue papers, briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in peer-reviewed journals and technical publications. None of the above 10 [18169] Select the statements that describe your leadership and organizational skills. Answer to this question is required Set team goals, made work assignments, and reviewed technical quality of deliverables. Set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. Developed performance measures and assigned performance ratings. Planned, assigned, reviewed, and accepted, amended, or rejected work done by subordinates and teams. Explained to subordinates company or agency goals and the connection between employees' work product and those goals. Maintained adherence to program policies. I have not performed any of the functions described above. 11 [21231] Select the statement that best describes your experience developing collaborative relationships across modal and disciplinary boundaries with colleagues both within and outside of your organization. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience developing collaborative relationships across modal and disciplinary boundaries with colleagues within and outside my organization. I have developed collaborative relationships across modal and disciplinary boundaries with colleagues within and outside may organization and have worked in this area with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have developed collaborative relationships across modal and disciplinary boundaries with colleagues within and outside my organization and have worked in this area as a regular part of a job. Only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have developed collaborative relationships across modal and disciplinary boundaries with colleagues within and outside my organization and have worked in this area as a regular part of a job. Even in unique or unusual situations, I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise with developing collaborative relationships across modal and disciplinary boundaries with colleagues within and outside my organization and I have trained or instructed others in this area. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 [66720] Please select the ONE response that indicates how would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required U.S. CITIZEN - Applicants that do not currently work for the federal government and have not in the past. If you are unsure, please choose this option. YOUR APPLICATION IS NOW COMPLETE. Please ensure your resume reflects all experience related to the position. OR CURRENT OR FORMER FEDERAL EMPLOYEE - Applicants that have competitive status or reinstatement rights, Veterans and applicants with special hiring authorities rights (https://www.opm.gov/faq/employment/What-are-the-special-appointing-authorities-some-agencies-include-in.ashx), please select this option. Please answer a few questions about your federal government experience next. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Answer to this question is required Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 11 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 14 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 15 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 16 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 16.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 16.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 16.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).