Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Safety Specialist must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the Safety program with staff and inmates of the institution. Contacts made by him/her may also include vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, other federal agency personnel, local fire departments, health departments, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Safety Council, and others.&nbsp; He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmates&rsquo; attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given instructions on the proper way to handle machinery used; and/or I have clarified the Emergency Contingency Plan for the institution; and/or I have used safety references to provide responses to questions pertaining to safety related issues. I have given a lecture to persuade, convince and encourage voluntary compliance by management and staff on new safety rules or procedures; and/or I have conducted training sessions for staff during scheduled meetings; and/or I have trained an Alternate Safety Compliance Specialist. I have issued safety handbooks and answered basic questions; and/or I have given instructions on the proper use of protective work gear; and/or I have provided clarification on how to safely perform duties related to office equipment. None of the above. 3 The Safety Specialist must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she prepares written communication for various management officials, employees and other agencies regarding occupational safety, environmental health, fire prevention and OWCP issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have filled in information on a form letter; and/or I have documented inmate daily activities; and/or I have prepared purchase request; and/or I have maintained written logs. I have drafted memorandum to staff members relaying safety information; and/or I have typed various inspection reports; and/or I have prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have typed standard form letters. I have submitted monthly safety reports to central and regional offices; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information related to a safety issue; and/or I have assisted in drafting and processing a safety related Tort Claim and/or reimbursement for damaged property. None of the above. 4 The Safety Specialist must possess knowledge of safety program policies in order to effectively assist in the operation of occupational safety and environmental health program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised an interagency policy; and/or I have prepared revisions to an environmental health policy; and/or I have revised current policy to reflect changes in regulations. I have utilized existing policies to ensure safety equipment was in compliance with regulations; and/or I have ensured sanitation program met governing regulations/guidelines; and/or I have referenced the Safety Manual to complete assigned tasks. I have assisted in the inspection of work areas to ensure safety standards are met on a continual basis; and/or I have instructed inmate work detail on proper use of buffing machine; and/or I have referred to the Safety Data Sheet for chemical content of a product. None of the above. 5 The Safety Specialist must possess the ability to recognize unsafe working conditions and make recommendations to comply with established standards and practices.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured protective machine guard remained in place at all times during use; and/or I have monitored sanitation programs to ensure they remained consistent with requirements; and/or I have ensured protective working gear was worn when required; and/or I have successfully resolved an issue with the Department of Labor regarding a OWCP claim. I have eliminated and/or resolved hazardous conditions in the work area by ensuring warning signs and labels were visible; and/or I have assisted in the inspections for safety hazards; and/or I have investigated a minor work related injury and took appropriate corrective actions. I have wore protective gear while performing certain tasks; and/or I have assisted in gathering forms required for an OWCP claim; and/or I have maintained copies of the Safety Data Sheets in centralized location for easy access. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Safety Specialist must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the Safety program with staff and inmates of the institution. Contacts made by him/her may also include vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, other federal agency personnel, local fire departments, health departments, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Safety Council, and others.&nbsp; He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmates&rsquo; attitude and behavior patterns.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given instructions on the proper way to handle machinery used; and/or I have clarified the Emergency Contingency Plan for the institution; and/or I have used safety references provide responses to questions pertaining to safety related issues. I have given a lecture to persuade, convince and encourage voluntary compliance by management and staff on new safety rules or procedures; and/or I have conducted training sessions for staff during scheduled meetings; and/or I have trained an Alternate Safety Compliance Specialist. I have given a presentation regarding fire prevention techniques utilized in an organization; and/or I have provided training session on safety and occupational health management; and/or I have taught safety techniques and methods to identify and prevent environmental health issues to staff. None of the above. 3 The Safety Specialist must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she prepares written communication for various management officials, employees and other agencies regarding occupational safety, environmental health, fire prevention and OWCP issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have submitted monthly safety reports to central and regional offices; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information related to a safety issue; and/or I have assisted in drafting and processing a safety related Tort Claim and/or reimbursement for damaged property. I have drafted memorandum to staff members relaying safety information; and/or I have typed various inspection reports; and/or I have prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have typed standard form letters. I have assisted in the development of national policy and programs to ensure a safe and healthy work environment; and/or I have prepared a report responding to OSHA compliance inspections; and/or I have collected and compiled data and prepared annual report on findings to OSHA. None of the above. 4 The Safety Specialist must possess knowledge of safety program policies in order to effectively assist in the operation of occupational safety and environmental health program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted policies in conjunction with OSHA and National Fire Codes to ensure safety operations are in compliance with regulatory requirements; and/or I have reviewed internal policy and made recommendations for updates; and/or I have assisted in the interpretation and development of interagency safety and occupational health policies. I have utilized existing policies to ensure safety equipment was in compliance with regulations; and/or I have ensured sanitation program met governing regulations/guidelines; and/or I have referenced the Safety Manual to complete assigned tasks. I have revised an interagency policy; and/or I have prepared revisions to an environmental health policy; and/or I have revised current policy to reflect changes in regulations. None of the above. 5 The Safety Specialist must possess the ability to recognize unsafe working conditions and make recommendations to comply with established standards and practices.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized various types of fires and used appropriate steps to extinguish them; and/or I have examined an institutional violation detected during an inspection and corrected the violation; and/or I have identified and eliminated unsafe and unhealthy conditions related to the work area. I have eliminated and/or resolved hazardous conditions in the work area by ensuring warning signs and labels were visible; and/or I have assisted in the inspections for safety hazards; and/or I have investigated a minor work related injury and took appropriate corrective actions. I have ensured protective machine guard remained in place at all times during use; and/or I have monitored sanitation programs to ensure they remained consistent with requirements; and/or I have ensured protective working gear was worn when required; and/or I have successfully resolved an issue with the Department of Labor regarding a OWCP claim. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).