Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience in the following areas: Experience coordinating all Time and Attendance and Leave Management operations. Ability in managing, time keeping processes to ensure all employees are charged to the correct operating accounts. &nbsp; &nbsp; 2 Please indicate which methods you have used to effectively lead or substantially contribute to a customer relationship management initiative. Answer to this question is required Conducting research. Developing a measurement system to determine performance or improvement. Preparing a report or presentation to effectively communicate complex data through graphs and charts. Developing an evaluation system to determine if expected outcomes are achieved. Interviewing stakeholders. Writing a document to summarize findings and present recommendations to decision makers. Orally presenting recommendations to decision makers. Preparing an implementation plan. Preparing a communication plan. None of the above. 3 Do you have experience leading an end-to-end&nbsp;strategic planning and strategy execution process? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the choice that best describes your experience planning, organizing and implementing research, audits, evaluations, follow-up, and program reviews.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 5 What type of work products do you have experience producing? Answer to this question is required Informational reports or briefing papers Data analysis results Talking points for senior leaders PowerPoint presentations for you or others to present Newsletter articles, blog entries Program or policy documents Technical program policies or agency-wide guidelines Creation of Excel and Access formulas, forms, macros, and SharePoint administered data None of the above 6 Which tasks have you performed to communicate and process information? Answer to this question is required Summarized and reconciled financial data. Planned and monitored the use of expenditures and prepared financial documents and reports. Collected and analyzed data. Conveyed information and ideas through a variety of media sources. Interpreted and applied written policies and procedures. Analyzed policies concerning operating programs and recommended management proposals to enhance the productivity of the work environment. None of the above. 7 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interacting with others at work. Answer to this question is required I attended workgroup, committee, or team meetings but have not actively contributed to discussions. I collaborated with a workgroup, committee, or team members to solve a problem. I led or chaired a workgroup, committee, or team and guided collaboration efforts. None of the above. 8 How have you interacted with customers? Answer to this question is required I have listened to customer needs and recommended solutions without compromising quality or agency/company objectives and policies. I have educated customers on how the services of my agency/company would effectively meet their needs. I have actively solicited and responded to customer feedback. I have reached out to customers for feedback throughout an engagement/project. I have help develop and/or implemented an action plan to improve a program, process or procedure in response to customer feedback. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with planning, scheduling, and organizing work to meet our customer needs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience planning, scheduling, and organizing work. I have participated as a team member to plan, schedule, and organize work. I have independently planned, scheduled, and organized work. I have led a team to plan, schedule, and organize work. 10 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Answer to this question is required Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g. percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables Developed spreadsheets Identified missing information Presented analyses in person None of the above 11 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience gathering and organizing information. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience gathering or organizing information. I gathered and organized information in an academic role (e.g., to complete assignments, write papers), but have not applied this skill in my professional work. I gathered, analyzed, and organized information to complete a formal written proposal and/or oral presentation. I have reviewed and prioritized information I gathered to create a standard presentation delivered by others (e.g., script for call center or help desk) in a professional setting. I gathered and organized information to draft standard operating procedures and/or policies. I have attended meetings with high ranking officials and VIPs to gather information and develop plans for implementing operational adjustments, such as those required by special events. 12 I have provided T&amp;A guidance and leave management to subordinate staff, supervisors, colleagues and customers. Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I have served as an FMLA and Workers Compensation Field Coordinator. Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Please check the applicable boxes below for the type of documentation you have authored. Answer to this question is required Agency Policy Department Policy Standard Operating Procedures Union Disposition Incident Reports Letters Position Papers None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.