Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which task(s) have you performed to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Install wires Install conduits Install starters Install relays Install boxes Install circuit breakers None of the above 2 Which meters have you used to ensure safe and correct operation of electrical circuits? Answer to this question is required Multi-meters Circuit identifiers Analyzers Meggers Phase rotation meters None of the above 3 Select the responses that demonstrated your ability to read, interpret, and revise schematic drawings and other documentation. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Created, maintained, and modified drawings and sketches. Identified, read, and interpreted power distribution drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted instrumentation and communication drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted electrical drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted relay, solid state, and logic drawings and specifications. None of the above. 4 Which conduit bending device(s) have you used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Manual Electric Hydraulic Heat None of the above 5 I have read and interpreted electrical drawings to perform the following tasks. Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; To install electrical fixtures. To repair electrical equipment. To repair electrical circuits. To add on or extend electrical circuits. To assemble electrical equipment. To determine manufacturer's specifications. None of the above. 6 Which of the following hand tools have you used to perform electrical work? Answer to this question is required Screwdrivers Pliers Wire strippers Drills Soldering Irons Conduit benders Conduit threaders Voltmeter None of the above 7 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw) Voltage testers Amp meters Circuit traces Meggars Arial lifts (Boom lifts, bucket truck, line truck) None of the above 8 Which tools have you used when performing electrical work? Answer to this question is required Fish Tape Tape Measure Hammer Pliers (Channel Lock, Side Cutter Diagonal, Linesman) Wire Strippers Soldering Irons Conduit Benders Conduit Threaders Non-Contact Voltage Detector Torpedo Level Allen Wrench Set (Hex Set) Razor Blade Knife (Utility Knife) Screwdrivers (Phillips, Straight-Blade) Wire Crimpers Multi-meters Bolt-cutters None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of electrical trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journey-level Electrician High Voltage (13 KV) Electrician On-the-job training Master Electrician None of the above 10 Which of the following professional certifications do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required Apprentice Journeyman Certified Electrician Master Electrician None of the above 11 In which stages of design have you participated in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents None of the above 12 Please select the choice(s) reflecting equipment you have used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohm meters Watt-meters Amp-meters Milliamp meters Ground fault indicators Amp probes Frequency meters Surge test equipment None of the above 13 Select the types of test and measuring equipment you have operated and maintained. Answer to this question is required Analog and digital multi-meters Electronic test equipment Insulation testers Oscilloscopes Fault locators High-voltage (13 KV) test equipment Computer-based test equipment Chart recorders Electrical test equipment High voltage (13 KV) relay test set Network protectors (480/208 voltage) test set None of the above 14 Select the tasks that you performed to select, install, maintain and troubleshoot power distribution equipment systems. Answer to this question is required Selected, installed, and maintained high voltage (13 KV) protection and control devices. Calculated requirements for secondary service loads, fuses, and feeders. Selected, installed, tested, and maintained oil and dry type distribution transformers (13 KV). Selected, laid out, tested, and maintained power distribution panels. Laid out, installed, tested, and maintained ground fault circuit interrupters. Laid out, installed, tested, and maintained power factor correction equipment. Installed low-voltage power distribution systems. Performed troubleshooting and maintenance of high voltage (13 KV) power distribution systems. Installed, performed troubleshooting and maintenance of direct current (DC) power distribution systems. Selected, installed, performed troubleshooting and maintenance of AC/DC protective devices. None of the above. 15 Which of the following responses best describes your knowledge and experience with generators, high voltage (13KV) switchgear, transformers, and service equipment? Answer to this question is required I have extensive electrical knowledge and experience. I have intermediate electrical knowledge and minimal experience. I have basic knowledge and have assisted journey-level electricians. I have no electrical knowledge or experience. 16 Select the tasks you performed when troubleshooting and repairing high voltage (13KV) power systems. Answer to this question is required Identified switchgears, transformers, and cabling components. Determined potential causes of power loss such as phase-to-phase shorts, overcurrent and under frequency. Determined events that led to system failure. Reviewed equipment performance history. Performed and interpreted diagnostic tests. Isolated faults. Identified hazards of stored energy in capacitors, cabling, and transformers. Performed visual inspections. Recognized worn, damaged, defective, or hazardous components. None of the above. 17 Select the tasks you have performed to troubleshoot electrical circuits up to 13KV. Answer to this question is required Removed fixtures and replaced fixtures Removed controls and replaced controls Installed new outlets in existing circuits Relocated outlets in existing circuits Installed safety switches (fused or non-fused) Installed switchgears (13KV) Installed transformers (13KV) None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.