Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you have experience with such work with a Federal, State, municipal, local, or private protective organization that involved the protection of property against such hazards as fire, theft, damage, accident, or trespass; or maintaining order and protecting life. Such experience must have provided a knowledge of protective systems and techniques. Acceptable experience includes service in the Armed Services or Coast Guard that involved the performance of guard duties on a regular or intermittent basis. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting searches of persons or property entering or leaving a facility (i.e., conducting physical searches; searches of containers, cases, bags or vehicles; operation of metal detection equipment, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have never performed this function. I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently conducted searches to identify the presence of dangerous or illegal items. I have independently conducted searches and have trained others in search procedures, including the use of X-ray equipment, magnetometers, and other security equipment and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcement or security personnel. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience protecting and securing areas involving incidents (i.e. securing a crime scene, taking witness statements, gathering evidence, detaining suspects, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience in performing this task. I have received training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I have assisted others in securing areas involving incidents. I have independently secured areas involving incidents or locations that were routine or straightforward (e.g., cordoning off 100 square foot area, in daylight, and where crowd or weather conditions were not challenging, etc.) I have independently secured areas involving incidents or locations that were non-routine or complex (e.g., cordoning off 300+ square foot area, in darkness, and where crowd or weather conditions were dangerous, etc.?.) 5 Which of the following best describes your experience detecting and preventing theft, damage, accident, and trespass by enforcing the security regulations of the museum/facility? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others on this task. None of the above. I have received training in this task but have never performed it. 6 Do you have experience following set procedures in an emergency situation (i.e. crowd control, securing perimeters, evacuating staff/visitors, etc)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience with assisting personnel as directed in handling disturbed, aggressive and agitated individuals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating emergency response between security, Police Department, Fire Department, and other emergency units? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others, and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcements or security personnel. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience assisting victims of accidents by providing first aid, and/or calling for medical assistance? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others, and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcements or security personnel. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience detecting and preventing theft, damage, accident, and trespass by enforcing the security regulations of the museum/facility? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others on this task. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to follow policy and procedures to ensure the safety of staff, visitors, facilities and property? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. 12 Which of the following on-the-job security responsibilities do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Patrolling and inspecting to check locks, alarms, perimeter doors and other areas. Receiving and dispatching. Assisting staff/visitors during medical emergencies. Evacuating staff/visitors during emergencies. Conducting searches of persons or property entering or leaving a facility (i.e., conducting physical searches, searches of containers, cases, bags, vehicles searches). Preventing unauthorized entry into a restricted area such as a secure facility (i.e. ID inspections, barrier controls, gate controls, level of force). Conducting inspections to ensure compliance with safety requirements. Protecting and securing areas involving incidents, securing a crime scene, taking witness statements, gathering evidence, detaining suspects. None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting inspections to ensure compliance with safety requirements? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience in performing this task. I have received training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I have conducted routine safety inspections. I have conducted safety inspections conducted under atypical or complex conditions requiring specialized knowledge or skill (e.g., hazardous materials, bomb threat, fire threat, etc.). 14 Which of the following best describes your experience preventing unauthorized entry into a restricted area such as a secure facility (such as ID inspections, barrier controls, gate controls, levels of force, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others, and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcements or security personnel. None of the above. 15 For which of the following people, places and/or articles have you provided security or protection? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required National treasures (e.g., White House, Liberty Bell, National Parks, Exquisite Jewels, Important documents, etc.) Parking facility Housing/Sports complex Shopping mall Inmates or prisoners Diplomats/Dignitaries/Government officials Military installation Special events (e.g. sports, concerts, etc.) Federal building Financial institutions None of the above Grade: 06 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you have experience with such work with a Federal, State, municipal, local, or private protective organization that involved the protection of property against such hazards as fire, theft, damage, accident, or trespass; or maintaining order and protecting life. Such experience must have provided a knowledge of protective systems and techniques. Acceptable experience includes service in the Armed Services or Coast Guard that involved the performance of guard duties on a regular or intermittent basis. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting searches of persons or property entering or leaving a facility (i.e., conducting physical searches; searches of containers, cases, bags or vehicles; operation of metal detection equipment, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have never performed this function. I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently conducted searches to identify the presence of dangerous or illegal items. I have independently conducted searches and have trained others in search procedures, including the use of X-ray equipment, magnetometers, and other security equipment and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcement or security personnel. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience protecting and securing areas involving incidents (i.e. securing a crime scene, taking witness statements, gathering evidence, detaining suspects, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience in performing this task. I have received training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I have assisted others in securing areas involving incidents. I have independently secured areas involving incidents or locations that were routine or straightforward (e.g., cordoning off 100 square foot area, in daylight, and where crowd or weather conditions were not challenging, etc.) I have independently secured areas involving incidents or locations that were non-routine or complex (e.g., cordoning off 300+ square foot area, in darkness, and where crowd or weather conditions were dangerous, etc.?.) 5 Which of the following best describes your experience detecting and preventing theft, damage, accident, and trespass by enforcing the security regulations of the museum/facility? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others on this task. None of the above. I have received training in this task but have never performed it. 6 Do you have experience following set procedures in an emergency situation (i.e. crowd control, securing perimeters, evacuating staff/visitors, etc)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience with assisting personnel as directed in handling disturbed, aggressive and agitated individuals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating emergency response between security, Police Department, Fire Department, and other emergency units? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others, and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcements or security personnel. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience assisting victims of accidents by providing first aid, and/or calling for medical assistance? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others, and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcements or security personnel. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience detecting and preventing theft, damage, accident, and trespass by enforcing the security regulations of the museum/facility? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others on this task. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to follow policy and procedures to ensure the safety of staff, visitors, facilities and property? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. 12 Which of the following on-the-job security responsibilities do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Patrolling and inspecting to check locks, alarms, perimeter doors and other areas. Receiving and dispatching. Assisting staff/visitors during medical emergencies. Evacuating staff/visitors during emergencies. Conducting searches of persons or property entering or leaving a facility (i.e., conducting physical searches, searches of containers, cases, bags, vehicles searches). Preventing unauthorized entry into a restricted area such as a secure facility (i.e. ID inspections, barrier controls, gate controls, level of force). Conducting inspections to ensure compliance with safety requirements. Protecting and securing areas involving incidents, securing a crime scene, taking witness statements, gathering evidence, detaining suspects. None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting inspections to ensure compliance with safety requirements? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience in performing this task. I have received training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I have conducted routine safety inspections. I have conducted safety inspections conducted under atypical or complex conditions requiring specialized knowledge or skill (e.g., hazardous materials, bomb threat, fire threat, etc.). 14 Which of the following best describes your experience preventing unauthorized entry into a restricted area such as a secure facility (such as ID inspections, barrier controls, gate controls, levels of force, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others, and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcements or security personnel. None of the above. 15 For which of the following people, places and/or articles have you provided security or protection? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required National treasures (e.g., White House, Liberty Bell, National Parks, Exquisite Jewels, Important documents, etc.) Parking facility Housing/Sports complex Shopping mall Inmates or prisoners Diplomats/Dignitaries/Government officials Military installation Special events (e.g. sports, concerts, etc.) Federal building Financial institutions None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.