Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Graduation from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND Successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination; must maintain status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification. AND For all grade levels and positions, applicants must possess and electronically upload proof of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts, proof of certification and license or registration at the time you apply. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements. In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must meet at least one of the following educational requirements: Completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program (certificate of completion, associate degree, or bachelor's degree). OR Completion of a bachelor's degree in a related health care or health related science and graduation from an accredited physician assistant educational program. 2 Do you meet any of the additional educational requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in A. Applicants must submit proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in B. Applicants must submit transcripts and proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. This vacancy announcement is for a position that has educational transcripts, certification, and proof of license requirements. The educational transcripts, certification, and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Physician Assistant recognizes adverse signs and symptoms, makes the appropriate assessment, and reacts swiftly in providing treatment in emergency situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided initial assessment and intervention to patient suspected of having a heart attack; and/or I have assessed potential stroke victim and referred patient for anticoagulant therapy; and/or I have provided interventional treatment for patient having asthma attack; and/or I have ordered blood gases and titrated oxygen therapy for patient with chronic obstructive lung disease in respiratory distress. I have worked as a first responder, hospital technician, or in a military setting to assist others in an emergency situation; and/or I have performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); and/or I have splinted injured extremities; and/or I have applied cervical collars; and/or I have provided hemostasis for wounds; and/or I have followed protocols for Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) as directed by an Emergency Room physician. I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a physician’s office setting; and/or I have treated patients with minor injuries such as fractures, simple lacerations, strains, sprains that require splinting; and/or I have performed suturing of an open wound or laceration; and/or I have performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) until an emergency team arrived. None of the above. 5 The Physician Assistant must evaluate the health care needs of inmate patients (both acute and chronic) and make a diagnosis and prescribe the appropriate treatment and medications (under the supervision of a physician).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with surgical procedures; and/or I have assisted with diagnostic studies, such as angiograms, upper Gastrointestinal (GI), and colonoscopies; and/or I have made interventions or referrals based upon clinical findings; and/or I have adjusted medication therapy based upon lab results. I have utilized standing orders, practice guidelines, or protocols for treatment and intervention; and/or I have reported observations regarding health status to supervisory staff; and/or I have initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); and/or I have provided first aide. I have performed history and physical examination on well individuals and identified at risk behavior; and/or I have diagnosed and treated common illnesses/minor injuries such as ear pain, respiratory infection, gastrointestinal upset, headaches and colds; and/or I have worked in a specialty (non-primacy) area such as dermatology, ear, nose and throat (ENT). None of the above. 6 The Physician Assistant must appropriately assess the inmate patient&rsquo;s overall medical history and illness in order to accurately prescribe medication, including the appropriate dosage.&nbsp; His/her assessment is critical in this area because improper dispensing of medicine may cause negative side effects or have fatal results.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in an urgent care clinic assisting other workers; and/or I have worked in an emergency room and in a critical care unit and/or military setting; and/or I have provided prescription medications and/or emergency medications as directed; and/or I have observed for and reported side effects associated with medication therapy. Under the supervision of physician, I have prescribed medication to patients following established protocol or standing orders; and/or I have instructed patients on side effects and expected results; and/or I have assisted others providing medication therapy. Under the supervision of physician, I have prescribed medications for chronic disease management; and/or I have prescribed antibiotics for infectious disease processes; and/or I have ordered lab work to monitor side effects of specific drugs according to pharmaceutical recommendations; and/or I have conducted patient education classes regarding disease management and medication therapy. None of the above. 7 The Physician Assistant must evaluate and interpret diagnostic test results to make diagnostic impressions based on those test results and prescribe the appropriate treatment. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ordered x-rays and splinted or casted extremity; and/or I have, based upon a neurological examination, ordered a computed tomography (CT)scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)scan; and/or I have evaluated the results of pulmonary function tests to determine medication therapy; and/or I have ordered a follow-up lipid profile to evaluate the effectiveness of medication therapy. I have interpreted x-rays, electrocardiograms (EKG), liver function tests, blood sugar and diabetic tests, and/or pulmonary function tests; and/or I have conducted shave and punch biopsy; and/or I have ordered magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/computed axial tomography (CAT) or bone scan in consultation with physician; and/or I have performed and interpreted hemoglobin tests; and/or I have performed saline and potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparations. I have worked in an urgent care clinic; and/or I have worked in an emergency room, in a critical care or military setting; and/or I have provided oxygen saturation via oximeter and blood glucose by finger stick; and/or I have assisted others in urine dipstick; and/or I have conducted simple neurological examinations. None of the above. 8 The Physician Assistant must relate and deal effectively with inmates from complex backgrounds and cultures regarding health care issues/concerns. By providing guidance and counseling, he/she may positively impact inmate behavior patterns and attitudes towards personal health care.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained in laymen terms complex medications and medical problems involving conditions such as coronary heart disease, diabetes, and/ or hypertension; and/or I have treated patients with complex/multi-cultural backgrounds; and/or I have asked open ended questions to gather detailed medical information from patients with complex medical problems; and/or I have provided post discharge instructions. I have conducted group therapy sessions for mental health patients; and/or I have conducted patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have provided patient education; and/or I have provided therapeutic intervention to patient in emotional distress; and/or I have discussed the rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance. I have collected information regarding immunization history; and/or I have verified medical history with family members if patient is unable to communicate; and/or I have informed patient about living wills and advanced directives; and/or I have determined patients allergy status and clarified type of response; and/or I have screened victims during a mass casualty; and/or I have provided community healthcare education programs; and/or I have taught cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) course for laymen. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Graduation from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND Successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination; must maintain status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification. AND For all grade levels and positions, applicants must possess and electronically upload proof of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts, proof of certification and license or registration at the time you apply. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements. In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must meet at least one of the following requirements: Completion of Master of Physician Assistant Studies. OR Completion of a master's degree in a related health care or health related science and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. Examples of related master's degree programs include, but are not limited to, Master of Medical Sciences, Master of Public Health, Master of Biomedical Sciences, or other related major fields of study. OR Have a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-7 grade level and graduation from an accredited physician assistant educational program as described above. 2 Do you meet any of the additional educational and/or experience requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the educational requirement described in A. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts at the time you apply. Yes, I meet the educational requirement described in B. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts and proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. Yes, I meet the experience and educational requirement described in C. Applicants must UPLOAD proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C. This vacancy announcement is for a position that has educational transcripts, certification, and proof of license requirements. The educational transcripts, certification, and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Physician Assistant recognizes adverse signs and symptoms, makes the appropriate assessment, and reacts swiftly in providing treatment in emergency situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided initial assessment and intervention to patient suspected of having a heart attack; and/or I have assessed potential stroke victim and referred patient for anticoagulant therapy; and/or I have provided interventional treatment for patient having asthma attack; and/or I have ordered blood gases and titrated oxygen therapy for patient with chronic obstructive lung disease in respiratory distress. I have treated patients as a Physician Assistant in an urgent care clinic setting; and/or I have assisted physician or medical team in treating life threatening emergencies; and/or I have treated patients with complicated injuries, such as compound fractures, deep lacerations, or blunt trauma; and/or I have assessed neurological deficits. I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a physician’s office setting; and/or I have treated patients with minor injuries such as fractures, simple lacerations, strains, sprains that require splinting; and/or I have performed suturing of an open wound or laceration; and/or I have performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) until an emergency team arrived. None of the above. 5 The Physician Assistant must evaluate the health care needs of inmate patients (both acute and chronic) and make a diagnosis and prescribe the appropriate treatment and medications (under the supervision of a physician).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with surgical procedures; and/or I have assisted with diagnostic studies, such as angiograms, upper Gastrointestinal (GI), and colonoscopies; and/or I have made interventions or referrals based upon clinical findings; and/or I have adjusted medication therapy based upon lab results. I have provided long term care to patients in nursing homes, Veterans Administration (VA) Hospitals/Clinics, or homes for the developmentally disabled; and/or I have conducted sick call with minimal supervision; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a clinical/primary care environment. I have performed history and physical examination on well individuals and identified at risk behavior; and/or I have diagnosed and treated common illnesses/minor injuries such as ear pain, respiratory infection, gastrointestinal upset, headaches and colds; and/or I have worked in a specialty (non-primacy) area such as dermatology, ear, nose and throat (ENT). None of the above. 6 The Physician Assistant must appropriately assess the inmate patient&rsquo;s overall medical history and illness in order to accurately prescribe medication, including the appropriate dosage.&nbsp; His/her assessment is critical in this area because improper dispensing of medicine may cause negative side effects or have fatal results.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prescribed medication using a fixed formulary; and/or I have utilized evidence based medicine to manage patients with hypertension, diabetes, and other chronic illnesses with age, sex, or race specific treatment modalities; and/or I have conducted in-service programs for colleagues regarding trends in medication therapy; and/or I have successfully completed Continuing Medical Education (CME) training in any area of pharmacology. Under the supervision of physician, I have prescribed medication to patients following established protocol or standing orders; and/or I have instructed patients on side effects and expected results; and/or I have assisted others providing medication therapy. Under the supervision of physician, I have prescribed medications for chronic disease management; and/or I have prescribed antibiotics for infectious disease processes; and/or I have ordered lab work to monitor side effects of specific drugs according to pharmaceutical recommendations; and/or I have conducted patient education classes regarding disease management and medication therapy. None of the above. 7 The Physician Assistant must evaluate and interpret diagnostic test results to make diagnostic impressions based on those test results and prescribe the appropriate treatment. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ordered x-rays and splinted or casted extremity; and/or I have, based upon a neurological examination, ordered a computed tomography (CT)scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)scan; and/or I have evaluated the results of pulmonary function tests to determine medication therapy; and/or I have ordered a follow-up lipid profile to evaluate the effectiveness of medication therapy. I have interpreted x-rays, electrocardiograms (EKG), liver function tests, blood sugar and diabetic tests, and/or pulmonary function tests; and/or I have conducted shave and punch biopsy; and/or I have ordered magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/computed axial tomography (CAT) or bone scan in consultation with physician; and/or I have performed and interpreted hemoglobin tests; and/or I have performed saline and potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparations. I have ordered diagnostic studies to evaluate renal function and ordered a nephrology consult; and/or I have ordered nerve conduction studies to document evidence of a neurological deficit; and/or I have ordered appropriate antibiotics based upon culture and sensitivity reports; and/or I have discontinued medication therapy for tuberculosis (TB) based upon abnormal liver profile; and/or I have ordered appropriate tests and consults to assist with differential diagnosis for a severe headache. None of the above. 8 The Physician Assistant must relate and deal effectively with inmates from complex backgrounds and cultures regarding health care issues/concerns. By providing guidance and counseling, he/she may positively impact inmate behavior patterns and attitudes towards personal health care.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained in laymen terms complex medications and medical problems involving conditions such as coronary heart disease, diabetes, and/ or hypertension; and/or I have treated patients with complex/multi-cultural backgrounds; and/or I have asked open ended questions to gather detailed medical information from patients with complex medical problems; and/or I have provided post discharge instructions. I have conducted group therapy sessions for mental health patients; and/or I have conducted patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have provided patient education; and/or I have provided therapeutic intervention to patient in emotional distress; and/or I have discussed the rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance. I have diffused a crisis involving angry, violent, and/or manipulative patients; and/or I have led a support/self-help patient group; and/or I have treated patients with medical/psychiatric health problems from complex/multi-cultural backgrounds. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Graduation from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND Successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination; must maintain status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification. AND For all grade levels and positions, applicants must possess and electronically upload proof of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts, proof of certification and license or registration at the time you apply. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements. In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must meet at least one of the following requirements: Completion of Doctorate of Physician Assistant Studies, Doctorate of Science Physician Assistant (DScPA) or equivalent. OR Completion of a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree in a related health field and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. Examples of related doctoral degree programs include, but are not limited to, public health; allied health field; public health education; or other related health science programs. OR Have a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. 2 Do you meet any of the additional educational and/or experience requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in A. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts at the time you apply. Yes, I meet the additional educational requirement described in B. Applicants must UPLOAD transcripts and proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. Yes, I meet the experience and educational requirement described in C. Applicants must UPLOAD proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B or C. This vacancy announcement is for a position that has educational transcripts, certification, and proof of license requirements. The educational transcripts, certification, and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Physician Assistant recognizes adverse signs and symptoms, makes the appropriate assessment, and reacts swiftly in providing treatment in emergency situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently treated injured individuals with life threatening emergencies such as cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, stroke, shock, or head trauma; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in an emergency room; and/or I have directed a medical response team in an emergency situation; and/or I have performed advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) or advanced trauma life support (ATLS) on individuals; and/or I have effectively utilized differential diagnosis process to solve problems. I have treated patients as a Physician Assistant in an urgent care clinic setting; and/or I have assisted physician or medical team in treating life threatening emergencies; and/or I have treated patients with complicated injuries, such as compound fractures, deep lacerations, or blunt trauma; and/or I have assessed neurological deficits. I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a physician’s office setting; and/or I have treated patients with minor injuries such as fractures, simple lacerations, strains, sprains that require splinting; and/or I have performed suturing of an open wound or laceration; and/or I have performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) until an emergency team arrived. None of the above. 5 The Physician Assistant must evaluate the health care needs of inmate patients (both acute and chronic) and make a diagnosis and prescribe the appropriate treatment and medications (under the supervision of a physician).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with surgical procedures; and/or I have assisted with diagnostic studies, such as angiograms, upper Gastrointestinal (GI), and colonoscopies; and/or I have made interventions or referrals based upon clinical findings; and/or I have adjusted medication therapy based upon lab results. I have provided long term care to patients in nursing homes, Veterans Administration (VA) Hospitals/Clinics, or homes for the developmentally disabled; and/or I have conducted sick call with minimal supervision; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a clinical/primary care environment. I have independently diagnosed and managed patients with multiple, complex, chronic and acute health problems, such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), cancer, liver failure, asthma, hypertension or diabetes; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a prison or mental health environment; and/or I have worked as a Physician Assistant in a satellite clinic in the absence of the physician. None of the above. 6 The Physician Assistant must appropriately assess the inmate patient&rsquo;s overall medical history and illness in order to accurately prescribe medication, including the appropriate dosage.&nbsp; His/her assessment is critical in this area because improper dispensing of medicine may cause negative side effects or have fatal results.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prescribed medication using a fixed formulary; and/or I have utilized evidence based medicine to manage patients with hypertension, diabetes, and other chronic illnesses with age, sex, or race specific treatment modalities; and/or I have conducted in-service programs for colleagues regarding trends in medication therapy; and/or I have successfully completed Continuing Medical Education (CME) training in any area of pharmacology. I have independently prescribed and adjusted prescription dosage (i.e., insulin and diabetic medications) to stabilize patient; and/or I have managed patients on multiple medications; and/or I have managed patients with complex conditions; and/or I have prescribed specialized drugs, such as psychotropics, anti-coagulants (blood thinners) and thyroid medication; and/or I have adjusted medication therapy based upon monitoring of side effects of medication; and/or I have recommended lab studies, and follow-up examinations. Under the supervision of physician, I have prescribed medications for chronic disease management; and/or I have prescribed antibiotics for infectious disease processes; and/or I have ordered lab work to monitor side effects of specific drugs according to pharmaceutical recommendations; and/or I have conducted patient education classes regarding disease management and medication therapy. None of the above. 7 The Physician Assistant must evaluate and interpret diagnostic test results to make diagnostic impressions based on those test results and prescribe the appropriate treatment. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ordered x-rays and splinted or casted extremity; and/or I have, based upon a neurological examination, ordered a computed tomography (CT)scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)scan; and/or I have evaluated the results of pulmonary function tests to determine medication therapy; and/or I have ordered a follow-up lipid profile to evaluate the effectiveness of medication therapy. I have conducted specialized tests, such as a colposcopy, sigmoidoscopy or exercise treadmill test (stress tests); and/or I have interpreted and responded appropriately to specialized laboratory studies addressing areas such as HIV, anemia work-ups, cardiac enzymes, arterial blood gas (ABG), liver disease and other immune system-related problems; and/or I have interpreted tests results for patients with complex health problems/multiple disorders; and/or I have followed-up and ordered supplemental tests after identifying abnormalities; and/or I have performed incisional biopsy from skin for testing. I have ordered diagnostic studies to evaluate renal function and ordered a nephrology consult; and/or I have ordered nerve conduction studies to document evidence of a neurological deficit; and/or I have ordered appropriate antibiotics based upon culture and sensitivity reports; and/or I have discontinued medication therapy for tuberculosis (TB) based upon abnormal liver profile; and/or I have ordered appropriate tests and consults to assist with differential diagnosis for a severe headache. None of the above. 8 The Physician Assistant must relate and deal effectively with inmates from complex backgrounds and cultures regarding health care issues/concerns. By providing guidance and counseling, he/she may positively impact inmate behavior patterns and attitudes towards personal health care.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided crisis intervention to patients with suicidal ideation; and/or I have utilized an interpreter to validate patients understanding of disease process and treatment plan; and/or I have counseled noncompliant patients to improve patient outcomes and acceptance of treatment plan; and/or I have interviewed patients to evaluate risky behavior; and/or I have validated the patients understanding of medication and side effects. I have conducted group therapy sessions for mental health patients; and/or I have conducted patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have provided patient education; and/or I have provided therapeutic intervention to patient in emotional distress; and/or I have discussed the rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance. I have diffused a crisis involving angry, violent, and/or manipulative patients; and/or I have led a support/self-help patient group; and/or I have treated patients with medical/psychiatric health problems from complex/multi-cultural backgrounds. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Human Resources Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Social Media (Linkedln, Twitter, etc.) Other 6.1 Please briefly describe how you heard about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP). Maximum length of 75 characters. 7 Which of the following factors listed below influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Please select 1-5 answers. Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP 8 Which of the following factors listed below was the single most important factor that influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP Not addressed above Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).