Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Which mechanical instructions or specifications have you explained to other workers? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) Building automation logic None of the above 3 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, technical manuals, sketches, building plans and notes that were complex or incomplete requiring extensive knowledge of mechanical trades terminology and symbols specifically in the areas of HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electricity. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical mechanical trades experience in HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical work. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers in HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical trades. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of mechanical systems and equipment, including HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical. Followed drawings, technical manuals, and other references in making repairs and installation of mechanical systems (HVAC-R, plumbing/pipefitting, and electrical) under normal supervision. None of the above. 4 Which building systems have you independently maintained? Answer to this question is required Plumbing systems Piping systems – steam Piping systems – chilled water Piping system – gas Piping systems – pneumatic Piping systems – heating hot water Piping systems – fire suppression systems Electrical systems HVAC systems - fans HVAC systems - controls HVAC systems – variable frequency drives None of the above 5 Choose the highest level in which you have performed mechanical trade duties without more than normal supervision; i.e., HVAC-R, pipefitting/plumbing, electrical? Answer to this question is required I have led workers and generally oversee other journey level technicians in at least two of the trades identified above on a regular and repetitive basis. I have independently performed duties in at least two of the above trade areas at the journey level on a regular and recurring basis. I have performed duties and was fully functioning at the journey level in the HVAC-R OR pipefitting/plumber trade in addition to performing other duties in electrical or carpentry work at an advanced worker level. I have performed duties at the worker level in at least two of the trade areas identified above under the supervision of a journey level technician. None of the above. 6 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who maintain plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R building systems. Answer to this question is required I have not supervised employees who perform these building tasks. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I led employees by overseeing tasks assigned by the supervisor to make sure they were performed correctly. I supervised employees by assigning work and managing their performance. 7 Please select the responses that describe your experience training workers under your supervision. Answer to this question is required Identified needed training for individual employees Provided hands-on, on-the-job training for employees Scheduled employees to attend classroom based training Assigned developmental work to employees to strengthen skills Requested funding for employee training None of the above 8 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Wrote on-the-job training documents. Wrote job hazard analyses. Developed scopes of work and materials lists for projects None of the above 9 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Lead daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 10 Which pipefitting and/or plumbing tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Cutting pipe Threading pipe Selecting the correct pipe size Soldering pipe joints or hubs Snaking a clogged drain Installing plumbing fixtures Replacing plumbing fixtures Installing/replacing valves Troubleshooting automatic flush toilet valves Clearing drain traps Maintain water tanks None of the above 11 On which building components have you performed preventative maintenance or testing? Answer to this question is required Dry valves Sprinkler systems Standpipe Backflow prevention devices PRV Valves Pressure Release Valves Balancing Valves Variable Frequency Drives Fire Pumps Trip Stop Valves Sewer Ejector Pumps Valve Actuators None of the above 12 Which HVAC components have you repaired or installed? Answer to this question is required Condensate pumps Heat exchangers Temperature gauges Pressure gauges Sight glasses Convectors Radiators Chilled water lines Strainers Thermostats Blower motors Air cooled condenser Evaporators Steam traps Refrigeration compressors Air compressors DX units CRAC Units TXV Valves None of the above 13 Which tasks have you performed to maintain electric automation systems? Answer to this question is required Repaired variable frequency drives Replaced electric motors Wired a 3-phase motor Adjusted the shiv on a motor Read RPMs and amperages on a motor Replaced current transducers Replaced transformers Repaired controller cards None of the above 14 Which licenses do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required Journeyman- plumbing Journeyman- pipefitting Journeyman- electrical systems Journeyman- HVAC-R Stationary Engineer license Master- HVAC-R Master - plumbing None of the above 15 I have experience using digital control systems. Answer to this question is required True 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. False 16 Which of the following waste management requirements have you performed? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Determined the disposal of hazardous material. Selected containers for waste accumulation. Added waste to containers. Labeled containers. Moved waste to and from waste accumulation sites. Managed waste accumulation sites. Provided waste management guidance and answered questions. None of the above. 17 I am knowledgeable of the following hazardous and non-hazardous waste management requirements. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Lead paint Solvents Lamps Batteries Oil Polychlorinated biphenyl Asbestos Mold None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.