Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 6 Which of the following best reflects your experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues. I have education or training researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently researched and resolved complex visa and immigration issues as a regular part of the job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Select the customer service-related task(s) that you have performed to meet customer needs: Answer to this question is required I have coordinated or conducted meetings with managers and staff. I have established or revised work priorities. I have evaluated and modified services provided. I have directly investigated and resolved customer issues. I have followed up on resolution of customer issues and notified customers of the status of their inquiries or issues. I have developed or conducted customer surveys. I have provided customer service that was favorably recognized by a colleague, supervisor, or the customer. None of the above. 8 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. 9 Select the work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Observes worker performance. Establishes guidelines and performance expectations for staff. Evaluates worker performance. Recommends personnel actions as necessary. Effects disciplinary actions as appropriate. Critiques worker performance. Develops work improvement plans. Provides performance feedback. Schedules and assigns the work of others. Schedules and coordinates service requirements and facilities. None of the above. 10 Please select the type(s) of employee issue(s) with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Conduct and discipline Adverse actions Appeals Grievances Performance Management Developing performance standards Absence and leave Applicant assessment Security Labor relations Contracts / contract labor Coaching / mentoring None of the above 11 Which of the following describes your level of experience assisting management in developing a training needs assessment to determine individual, occupational or organizational training needs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 12 Have you been responsible for developing performance standards and evaluating contractors` work to ensure products are accurate and thorough? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Select the work activities you have performed in monitoring / assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action: Answer to this question is required Monitored the work performance of others as a supervisor or team leader. Monitored the processes or procedures to ensure adequacy or compliance. Monitored programs to ensure adherence to policies and procedures. None of the above. 14 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 15 Which of the following best describes your depth of experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the foreign affairs community? Answer to this question is required I have the education or training in performing this task, but have yet to perform it on the job. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually under the guidance or review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I do not have education, training, or experience in performing this task. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 17 Which of the following choices best describes your past experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have resolved conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have used a variety of interview methods to set applicants at ease in order to solicit additional information. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization?s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.