Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the responses best reflects your highest level of education and experience? Answer to this question is required High school diploma or equivalent plus four (4) years of administrative or clerical experience in an office environment. Associate's degree plus two (2) years of administrative or clerical experience in an office environment. Bachelor's degree or higher with some administrative or clerical experience in an office environment. None of the above. 2 Select the responses that best describe your level of experience providing customer service in a professional environment? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience providing customer service in a professional environment. I have provided customer service in a legal environment, court or community service agency. I have been trained on providing customer service but have not performed this activity on the job. I have identified customer needs and provided service that adhered to quality standards in defined situations. 3 Which of the following customer service-related activities have you regularly performed as part of your job? Answer to this question is required Answered telephone calls from customers/clients. Greeted and escorted visitors. Provided information about a process or procedure. Referred a customer to other services and programs. None of the above. 4 Select the audiences with which you have had communication. Answer to this question is required Managers Colleagues Subordinates General public Non-profit organizations Attorneys None of the above 5 Which statement best represents your proficiency using MS Windows operating systems programs and databases? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience using computer systems or databases. I have training in the use of computer systems, but I have not used it on the job. I have experience using computer systems and databases with the assistance of others. I routinely use computer programs and databases without supervision. I am considered an expert in the use of computer systems, programs and databases. I have trained others in its use. 6 With which of the following software programs do you have experience in a professional setting? Select all responses that apply. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Outlook None of the above 7 Select the response that best describes your ability to communicate effectively in writing. Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated experience in writing communications, reports or documents that provide instructions, request information and/or set out factual data. Material was prepared without the benefit of a standardized format and was normally disseminated outside the work areas assigned. Working independently, I have produced written communications within a work area requiring original composition of a routine nature. Written material consists of small or routine reports, responses to inquiries, as well as communicating basic ideas, procedures or regulations. Under the guidance and/or assistance of others, I have produced written communications within a work area requiring some original composition of a routine nature. Written material consisted mostly of communicating basic ideas, procedures or regulations. I have experience in copying information from one document to another, preparing correspondence from model letters and paragraphs, and format letters or other documents. None of the above 8 Select the response(s) that best describes your experience communicating orally. Answer to this question is required Receptionist or answering the telephone Serving as a point of contact for other clerical personnel on procedural matters Serving as a liaison in which contact is made with a variety of individuals for the purpose of conveying information Responding to inquiries or requests for information Explaining non-technical information Contacting others to obtain information None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your ability to make decisions independently? Answer to this question is required I make only simple and routine decisions. I refer complex issues to a supervisor. I am responsible for the resolution of unusual problems or unprecedented situations. I independently analyze problems or situations and consider the impact of the proposed solution and management preferences before providing solutions. 10 Which statement best describes your skills working with difficult customers? Answer to this question is required I refer difficult customers to my supervisor. I manage my emotions and remain calm when working with difficult customers. I remain calm when working with difficult customers and pay attention to the feelings being expressed. I remain calm and diffuse confrontational situations with difficult, hostile, or distressed customers. I remain calm, diffuse the situation, listen to the customers’ concerns, help them feel valued, and work to address and resolve their concerns. I have not worked with difficult customers. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).