Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to this position. (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in or directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 3 Do you have expertise and knowledge of established methods and techniques of mount making for museum artifacts for any of the following: Answer to this question is required Significant experience with artifact mount making for museum exhibitions with no supervision. Some experience with artifact mount making for museum exhibitions with some supervision. Limited experience with mount making methods and techniques None of the above 4 What types of materials from the following list are you skilled in working with? (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Plastics Epoxies Adhesives Paint Casting materials Wood Wood composites Laminates Metals None of the above 5 What is your level of skill working with materials? Answer to this question is required Experience independently fabricating in wood, metal and plastics across multiple projects involving multiple finishes and techniques, developing and refining fabrication techniques for exhibit and artifact related components, identifying best practices to meet specific project requirements. Experience as part of a team fabricating in wood, metal and plastics across multiple projects involving multiple finishes and techniques, developing and refining fabrication techniques for exhibit and artifact related components, identifying best practices to meet specific project requirements. Assisted on a production team to fabricate exhibit elements None. 6 What is your skill level in determining the most appropriate technique and approach for each assignment and in selecting the most appropriate materials to accomplish the task? Answer to this question is required Able to draw from direct experience to select appropriate materials and techniques for the task. Able to draw for limited experience to select appropriate materials and techniques for the task. Most often receive some guidance on materials and techniques for the task. Always select materials and techniques as directed by others. None. 7 What is your highest level of experience working on or with conceptual ideas, scale layouts, detailed design drawings, or files? Answer to this question is required Experience producing shop detail drawings and 3d models from design /concept documents. Experience working with Shop detail drawings and 3d models and design/concept documents. Experience working with shop detail drawings only. Experience working with concept documents only. None of the above. 8 From the list below, select the technical services you have provided in support of exhibits construction and fabrication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Artifact mount making using brass/brazing 2D artifact mount making Artifact mount making using acrylic Developing 3D models using CAD software Running CNC using CAM software MDF/wood fabrication Developing shop drawings for client approval Welding Machining using CNC milling machines None of the above 9 Do you have experieince with CAD/CAM software programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 What level of CAD/CAM and CNC Machine operation experience do you have? &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to design and create detailed 3D models of exhibit components, break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to work with 3D models of exhibit components, break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting and , operate CNC machinery Experience using CAM software to operate CNC machinery. None of the above. 11 Which of the following reflects your experience creating and maintaining information using CAD? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Experience creating CAD drawings to suit a specific application Experience using CAD software to read and mark up complex drawings Experience using Inventor or Fusion 360 Experience using AutoCAD No CAD experience. 12 Do you have experience working in an industrial or shop environment where safety procedures are regularly followed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 What is the highest level of responsibility you have within a team setting? Answer to this question is required Experience working closely with exhibit designers, project managers and other exhibit production specialists in both museum and shop settings. Experience working closely with exhibit designers, project managers and other exhibit production specialists in a shop setting. Experience working with exhibit production specialists in a shop setting. Limited experience with other fabricators in a shop setting. No experience Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experiences/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Choose the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic education requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an accredited college or university in illustrative design, commercial art, fine arts, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, or other fields related to the position. I have advanced training in a vocational school, technical institute, or art institute above the high school level in one of the fields listed above. I have specialized experience required for the position. This includes work in the appropriate field, e.g., design, modelmaking, art, taxidermy, or restoration. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Do you have expertise and knowledge of established methods and techniques of mount making for museum artifacts for any of the following: Answer to this question is required Significant experience with artifact mount making for museum exhibitions with no supervision. Some experience with artifact mount making for museum exhibitions with some supervision. Limited experience with mount making methods and techniques None of the above 4 Are you considered an expert in the field of museum mount making with the ability to work independently and to train other museum professionals in this field? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details and develops and recommends fabrication mounting methods that are appropriate for projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details and develops and recommends fabrication mounting methods that are appropriate for projects. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details and develops and recommends fabrication mounting methods. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details and develops fabrication mounting methods. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications and details. I have experience interpreting and analyzing design specifications. I do not have related experience. 6 What types of materials from the following list are you skilled in working with? (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Plastics Epoxies Adhesives Paint Casting materials Wood Wood composites Laminates Metals None of the above 7 What is your level of skill working with materials? Answer to this question is required Experience independently fabricating in wood, metal and plastics across multiple projects involving multiple finishes and techniques, developing and refining fabrication techniques for exhibit and artifact related components, identifying best practices to meet specific project requirements. Experience as part of a team fabricating in wood, metal and plastics across multiple projects involving multiple finishes and techniques, developing and refining fabrication techniques for exhibit and artifact related components, identifying best practices to meet specific project requirements. Assisted on a production team to fabricate exhibit elements None. 8 What is your skill level in determining the most appropriate technique and approach for each assignment and in selecting the most appropriate materials to accomplish the task? Answer to this question is required Able to draw from direct experience to select appropriate materials and techniques for the task. Able to draw for limited experience to select appropriate materials and techniques for the task. Most often receive some guidance on materials and techniques for the task. Always select materials and techniques as directed by others. None. 9 What is your highest level of experience working on or with conceptual ideas, scale layouts, detailed design drawings, or files? Answer to this question is required Experience producing shop detail drawings and 3d models from design /concept documents. Experience working with Shop detail drawings and 3d models and design/concept documents. Experience working with shop detail drawings only. Experience working with concept documents only. None of the above. 10 From the list below, select the technical services you have provided in support of exhibits construction and fabrication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Artifact mount making using brass/brazing 2D artifact mount making Artifact mount making using acrylic Developing 3D models using CAD software Running CNC using CAM software MDF/wood fabrication Developing shop drawings for client approval Welding Machining using CNC milling machines None of the above 11 Do you have experieince with CAD/CAM software programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 What level of CAD/CAM and CNC Machine operation experience do you have? &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to design and create detailed 3D models of exhibit components, break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to work with 3D models of exhibit components, break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to break out parts, assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting, and operate CNC machinery. Experience using CAD/CAM and 3D Modeling software to assign tool paths and nest parts for cutting and , operate CNC machinery Experience using CAM software to operate CNC machinery. None of the above. 13 Which of the following reflects your experience creating and maintaining information using CAD? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Experience creating CAD drawings to suit a specific application Experience using CAD software to read and mark up complex drawings Experience using Inventor or Fusion 360 Experience using AutoCAD No CAD experience. 14 Do you have experience working in an industrial or shop environment where safety procedures are regularly followed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 What is the highest level of responsibility you have within a team setting? Answer to this question is required Experience working closely with exhibit designers, project managers and other exhibit production specialists in both museum and shop settings. Experience working closely with exhibit designers, project managers and other exhibit production specialists in a shop setting. Experience working with exhibit production specialists in a shop setting. Limited experience with other fabricators in a shop setting. No experience 16 Which of the following describes your experience with exhibit installation and de-installation? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a lead collections manager as part of a museum exhibit de-installation/installation. I have supervised the movement of objects from storage to an exhibition gallery and from an exhibition gallery to storage. I have worked as a team member of an exhibit de-installation/installation team. I have completed tasks critical to the successful and/or timely completion of the work of a whole project team. I have no experience working as part of a museum exhibit de-installation/installation team. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.