Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service OR equivalent level experience in the private sector, military or other as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience that demonstrates the following: (1) Leading and managing efforts involving AI or IT committees, working groups, budget and workload; (2) Demonstrating critical AI or IT experience with the ability to identify and mitigate risks; (3) Developing and managing an AI or IT foundation model and strategic plan; (4) Providing administrative and technical leadership or supervision of subordinate staff; (5) Establishing and integrating performance measurement processes into the operations of the organization, continuous improvement, and quality services. 2 Do you have experience leading the rollout of new technologies or programs within a complex organizational structure? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please describe your experience in leading the rollout of new technologies or programs within a complex organizational structure. What was the scope of the initiative? Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Have you implemented new technology in a large organization?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 What methodologies do you prefer when implementing new technology in a large organization? Please provide a brief overview of your approach. Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Which of the following interpersonal communications tasks have you performed independently? Answer to this question is required Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet a program objective Defended recommendations on controversial issues to senior management Persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations Negotiated expectations for work product/deliverables None of the above 7 Do you have experience communicating complex implementation strategies to senior leadership?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 8 Can you provide an example of how you have communicated complex implementation strategies to senior leadership? What tools or techniques did you use? Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 What key metrics do you consider when preparing a briefing for senior leaders regarding project implementation? Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Do you have experience developing organizational policies? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 11 In your opinion, what are the most critical factors to consider when developing organizational policies? Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How many years of experience do you have in policy administration? Answer to this question is required I have 0 - 1 year experience in policy administration. I have 1 - 3 years of experience in policy administration. I have 3 - 5 years of experience in policy administration. I have 5 -7 years of experience in policy administration. I have 7 - 10 years of experience in policy administration. I have 10+ years of experience in policy administration. 13 Provide examples of policies you have developed or managed. Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 What privacy regulations are you most familiar with, and how have you applied these in your previous roles? Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Have you ever conducted a privacy risk assessment?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 If you conducted a privacy risk assessment, please describe your approach and the outcome. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 What tools or software do you have experience with for data analytics? Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 18 Please list any specific examples of how you have used data analytics to influence decision-making. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.