Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead and direct a cooperative publishing program.** Performed a variety of duties for the management and development of a publishing program, in doing so: 1) developed and oversaw the implementation of a multi-year publishing plan; 2) established and maintained schedules and timelines; 3) appraised staffing and contractor resources; 4) evaluated production costs, marketing, and promotion; 5) assessed traditional and electronic distribution channels for publications; 6) oversaw project budgeting; 7) formulated, interpreted, and applied publishing policies and practices; 8) established working relationships with other publishing organizations; 9) made recommendations on internal and external program and policy issues; 10) acted as liaison with other publishing organizations; and 11) initiated, received, and assessed proposals for publishing projects. Answer to this question is required Managed and directed a cooperative publishing program in a professional association, business environment, or government agency. In doing so, conducted ALL of the above tasks. Managed and directed a cooperative publishing program in a professional association, business environment, or government agency. In doing so, conducted NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above tasks. Coordinated multiple publishing projects. In doing so, conducted SEVEN (7) EIGHT (8) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to communicate effectively in writing.** Wrote of a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized written publications and related products. Reviewed written products to ensure logical construction, concise, accessible language, and compliance with agency-wide communications policies. Written products consisted of: 1) full-length book manuscripts, essays, articles or other materials for publication; 2) publication planning documents; 3) policies and procedures; 4) memoranda; 5) proposals; 6) presentations and supporting materials; and 7) official correspondence. Answer to this question is required As a principal job responsibility in a publishing environment, wrote, reviewed, or oversaw production of ALL of the above written products. As a principal job responsibility in a publishing environment, wrote, reviewed, or oversaw production of SIX (6) of the above written products. As a principal job responsibility in a publishing environment, wrote, reviewed, or oversaw production of FIVE (5) of the above written products. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Supervised and/or managed a professional, diverse workforce. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) conducted administrative and technical supervision; 2) established guidelines and performance expectations; 3) provided feedback and coaching; 4) evaluated employee performance; 5) resolved informal complaints and grievances; 6) prepared performance plans and recommended personnel actions; 7) advised and counseled workers on duties and administrative matters; and 8) enforced disciplinary measures when appropriate. Answer to this question is required As a supervisor or manager in a professional setting, performed ALL of the above tasks. As a supervisor or manager in a professional setting, performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above tasks. As a supervisor or manager in a professional setting, performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked well, cooperated, and established and maintained liaison and professional relationships. This includes acting as a liaison across teams, government entities, and external organizations. Developed partnerships with academic institutions and private sector stakeholders to incorporate best practices and create accessible data products. Coordinated with various teams and stakeholders to ensure alignment with mission goals. Designed and delivered clear, visual, and meaningful presentations tailored to non-technical audiences. Answer to this question is required Served as the primary contact in assessing customer needs. Worked directly with a diverse community of internal and external colleagues and clients to determine sources for services, to locate services for staff, and to provide timely feedback on customer needs. Collaborated regularly with other divisions within an organization in order to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact in assessing customer needs. Under general supervision, worked with a diverse internal community of internal colleagues and clients to determine sources for services, to locate services for staff, and to provide timely feedback on customer needs. Collaborated regularly with other divisions within an organization to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact in assessing customer needs, locating services for staff and providing timely feedback to customers. Collaborated regularly with co-workers in order to complete work. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).