Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Executive Assistant must possess the ability to effectively converse with a variety of individuals internal and external to the agency. Internally, he/she communicates with agency Executive Staff, Warden&rsquo;s and other institution Executive Staff, Union officials, and other Bureau of Prisons staff, both line staff and managers, from throughout the agency. External communications include members of Congress and their staff, high-level Department of Justice staff, high-level staff from other Department of Justice and non-Department of Justice agencies, local, state, and international official both internal and external to corrections. He/she may also have contacts with various community leaders/citizens/public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a work group which included members of the Executive Staff/senior management executives in other agencies; and/or I have represented the agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given formal presentations to Executive Staff/top management of an agency/organization; and/or I have given formal presentations at job fairs, community events, vendor fairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have worked on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs/procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have made presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation for executive level staff. I have participated on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 5 The Executive Assistant is responsible for the quality control of all materials routed for the Assistant Director&rsquo;s signature, including letters and other correspondence, agency policy, responses to audits, and other sensitive and confidential documents. In addition, he/she is responsible for reviewing, editing, and correcting all correspondence prepared by others prior to releasing for final signature/approval of the Assistant Director. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax, and format to effectively prepare/edit letters, papers, for high-level use. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have worked as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal agency/organization requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit. I have prepared draft articles for Sallyport or other publications; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws, regulations, in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high-level federal, state, local or international external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures, etc.; and/or I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (i.e., technical journal or magazine); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees. None of the above. 6 The Executive Assistant meets and deals with individuals of differing backgrounds and will need to provide guidance and direction to various individuals. He/she must possess skills necessary to relate technical and non-technical information to others in a manner, which is understood by targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated routine information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level. I have participated in community-based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Warden’s/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. I have facilitated and coordinated training for a variety of participants (management level/line staff); and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations. None of the above. 7 The Executive Assistant is involved in gathering and evaluating information on topics and issues having direct impact on agency operations. The information gathered, analyzed, and prepared by the Executive Assistant is used for a variety of purposes, such as keeping management abreast of issues, preparing to address audiences, and identifying other related issues that impact agency operations. Recommendations made by the Executive Assistant are heavily relied upon by the Assistant Director in making executive level decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have used SENTRY or other available automated system to pull statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy, recommending changes or updates as necessary. I have served as a troubleshooter/liaison in dealing with management problems; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved. None of the above. 8 The Executive Assistant is responsible for the coordination of a variety of projects/assignments that directly enhance the mission of the Bureau of Prisons. He/she must possess the ability to gather, request, coordinate, and monitor the flow of information required to effectively accomplish the requests of the Assistant Director. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated, monitored, tracked, and summarized supervisor’s incoming correspondence and provided recommendations for required actions; and/or I have maintained/revised an established system which ensured office/division/department projects are met; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have resolved employee complaints and grievances; and/or I have recommended selections, promotions, awards. I have coordinated, monitored, and tracked individual workload to ensure completion of projects/assignments in a timely manner; and/or I have documented status of individual projects in department-wide database; and/or I have briefed supervisor immediately of issues/blocks encountered in completing assignments; and/or I have assigned/directed work of subordinate employees. I have led a team in the completion of multiple, simultaneous projects for mid/senior level executives and ensured completion within established deadline; and/or I have developed a system which ensured office/division/department projects are met, including the coordination of input/information required from other departments; and/or I have maintained appointment scheduling for senior level managers, Director/Assistant Director(AD)/Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and provided regular, pro-active briefings on issues involved in upcoming appointments; and/or I have coordinated, monitored, tracked and summarized executive level incoming correspondence to assist with required actions. None of the above. 9 The Executive Assistant serves as a liaison between the Assistant Director and other Department of Justice/Congressional/federal/state/county/private agencies and staff that have dealings with the Bureau of Prisons. He/she may coordinate interactions with these and other special interest groups. It is imperative that he/she possess knowledge of the workings and policies that direct the Federal Bureau of Prisons to advise and inform. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired Program/Operational Review or comparable internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have served as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented/conducted Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I training to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have participated in a Program/Operational Review; and/or I have served as member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institution; and/or I have served on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).