Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Case Managers must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities for all case management functions. They may occasionally act in the capacity of Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator and are simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining their caseload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have requested assistance through a supervisor on routine tasks in order to work on higher priority tasks; and/or I have maintained a routine workload; and/or I have assisted in making travel plans; and/or I have organized a database in accordance with established instructions. I have scheduled program reviews and/or initial classifications for inmates/clients; and/or I have utilized a database to track and prioritize work/caseload; and/or I have chaired a Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC) hearing. I have effectively managed a workload involving multiple supervisors; and/or I have participated in Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC) hearings; and/or I have used various tracking methods to complete assignments. None of the above. 4 Case Managers are required to communicate with inmates, family and friends of inmates, co-workers, and Federal, State and private sector employees in order to establish effective program goals, prepare inmate histories and counsel inmates during their incarceration. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided basic instruction to an inmate work detail; and/or I have assisted in the control center; and/or I have disclosed information such as directions, visiting hours, mail procedures, etc., in response to verbal inquiries. I have contributed information during informal meetings or discussions; and/or I have conveyed non-technical information to others on procedures; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process. I have contributed case information during a meeting; and/or I have assisted senior staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have conveyed technical information to others. None of the above. 5 Case Managers are required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner. This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and congressional requests and inquiries. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the preparation of BP-409's, Transfer Requests; and/or I have inserted case specific information into pre-established form letters; and/or I have prepared workload status reports. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared transfer requests (BP-409's); and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments within the organization. I have prepared incident reports; and/or I have prepared purchase requests; and/or I have maintained written logs. None of the above. 6 Case Managers must be able to research and interpret a variety of Correctional Program policies and procedures in order to apply sound case management practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered routine phone inquiries; and/or I have reported safety violations; and/or I have referred an inmate to Health or Psychology Services; and/or I have prepared standard reports in compliance with established procedures. I have explained policy to inmates; and/or I have recommended actions in compliance with updated policy; and/or I have answered non-routine questions regarding policies or programs. I have identified and initiated corrective action as a result of researching a policy; and/or I have implemented a local operating procedure in compliance with national directives; and/or I have provided training to other staff on institution policy and procedures. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Case Managers are required to create technical reports, memorandums and letters in a clear and concise manner. This includes the interpretation of policy and data which is used in compiling reports and/or responding to interagency, public, judicial and Congressional requests and inquiries. Written correspondence requires limited changes and few grammatical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the preparation of: BP-409, Transfer Requests; and/or I have inserted case specific information into pre-established form letters; and/or I have prepared workload status reports. I have prepared internal memorandums; and/or I have prepared transfer requests (BP-409); and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments within the organization. I have prepared detailed summaries of investigative reports; and/or I have prepared progress reports and case summaries with appropriate conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have prepared responses to complex Administrative Remedy Requests, BP-9's. None of the above. 4 Case Managers must possess the ability to analyze data which is instrumental in determining the appropriate classification of inmates. This also includes the ability to analyze specific information to make appropriate decisions and establish program goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in preparation of case summaries; and/or I have provided input for consideration on program goals of inmates/clients; and/or I have prepared a listing of inmates eligible for transfer to a low security facility for higher level approval. I have analyzed a variety of information material and recommended an improved process which increased efficiency in documenting case files; and/or I have analyzed complete case information in concert with policy and made recommendations which resulted in further benefit to the client/inmate/agency; and/or I have presented information which allowed a group of individuals to make sound case management decisions. I have recommended inmates for transfer to appropriate security level facility; and/or I have provided recommendations for inmate/client program goals; and/or I have prepared case summaries utilizing available information. None of the above. 5 Case Managers must understand current philosophy, guidelines, and policies regarding inmate programs, including but not limited to inmate classification, discipline, visitation, correspondence, administrative remedies, Parole Commission regulations, and drug abuse programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended programs to offenders or clients based on individual needs and available resources; and/or I have conducted release programs; and/or I have conducted client/inmate screening; and/or I have monitored the Central Inmate Monitoring System (CIMS) and the Victim Notification System (VNS) information. I have reviewed transfer and furlough packets prepared by others for consistency; and/or I have presented objective recommendations based on knowledge of policies and inmate needs; and/or I have assisted in developing and implementing improvements to local procedures. I have provided assistance in determining release program needs; and/or I have referred inmate/client to appropriate source of information; and/or I have assisted in inmate/client screening. None of the above. 6 Case Managers are required to communicate with inmates, family and friends of inmates, co-workers, and federal, state, and private sector employers in order to establish effective program goals, prepare inmate histories, and counsel inmates during their incarceration. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contributed information during informal meetings or discussions; and/or I have conveyed non-technical information to others on procedures; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process. I have contributed case information during a meeting; and/or I have assisted senior staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have conveyed technical information to others. I have informed my supervisor of an unusual classification issue and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed probation officers on case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered. None of the above. 7 Case Managers must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities for all case management functions. They may occasionally act in the capacity of Unit Manager or Case Management Coordinator, and are simultaneously responsible for effectively maintaining their caseload. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled program reviews and/or initial classifications for inmates/clients; and/or I have utilized database to track and prioritize work/caseload; and/or I have chaired a Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC) hearing. I have effectively managed a workload involving multiple supervisors; and/or I have participated in Unit Disciplinary Committee (UDC) hearings; and/or I have used various tracking methods to complete assignments. I have initiated the timely processing of referrals, transfer requests, etc.; and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time-frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).