Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to apply knowledge of architectural and engineering design, construction, and office renovation planning, space utilization, ergonomic principles, and related standards.* * Directed and coordinated an organization's architectural and engineering design, construction, and space utilization programs in various occupancy arrangements (for example, GSA, third party, inter-agency, ownership). Monitored all architectural and engineering design work, interior design, and related facilities projects, including furniture and furnishings procurement. Worked with responsible parties on related engineering, mechanical, electrical, HVAC, safety, and environmental activities associated with an organization's facilities and related contract support. Answer to this question is required As Department Head, Deputy, or equivalent, directed agency-wide staff and contractors engaged in architectural and engineering design, space utilization, interior design, and construction for a large, multi-building, geographically separated facilities complex (e.g., university or corporate campus, medical center, military installation). Monitored architectural and engineering design, interior design, and engineering professionals, technical and administrative support staff. As Department Head, Deputy, or equivalent, directed staff and contractors engaged in architectural and engineering design, space utilization, interior design, and construction for a large, multi-building, geographically separated facilities complex (e.g., office or hospital building, government or municipal building). Monitored design and engineering professionals, technical and administrative support staff. As Department Head, Deputy, or equivalent, directed staff and contractors engaged in space utilization, interior design, and construction for a large facilities complex (e.g., office or hospital building, government or municipal building). Monitored design and engineering professionals, technical and administrative support staff None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to manage projects.** Managed facility-related projects and project teams with a high degree of success, including, but not limited to, the following tasks: 1) worked with client to establish scope, 2) gathered project requirements, 3) established project schedule, 4) identified necessary resources, 5) prioritized competing requirements, 6) ensured accountability of team members in meeting project deadlines and milestones, 7) controlled and ensured timeliness of project deliverables, 8) managed project procedures and change, 9) optimized the team contributions, 10) resolved differences in a facilitative fashion, 11) evaluated the impact of decisions on quality, productivity, schedules, cost, and performance, 12) ensured project compliance, and 13) managed feedback and customer expectations. Answer to this question is required Served as a section manager for multiple, concurrent, complex, MULTI-AGENCY projects involving a complete range of facility design and construction activities with national and/or international significance. As manager, executed ALL of the above tasks. Served as a project manager for multiple, concurrent, complex, MULTI-AGENCY projects involving a complete range of facility design and construction activities with national and/or international significance. As project manager, executed ALL of the above tasks. Served as a project manager for multiple AGENCY-WIDE projects involving a complete range of facility design and construction activities. As project manager, executed ALL of the above tasks. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to apply technology.** Utilized computer technology in executing every aspect of the administrative and technical activities of the office, to include following software applications: 1) word processing (e.g., MS Word, WordPerfect), 2) spreadsheets (e.g., MS Excel, Lotus), 3) electronic mail (e.g., Outlook, GroupWise), 4) electronic procurement, 5) computerized maintenance management system (CMMS), and 6) computer aided facility management (CAFM). Answer to this question is required Utilized computer technology to execute the administrative and technical activities of the office, including AT LEAST FIVE of the above software applications. Also, comfortable using computer aided design (CAD) software. Utilized computer technology to execute the administrative and technical activities of the office, including AT LEAST FOUR of the above software applications. In addition, have some familiarity with computer aided design (CAD) software. Utilized computer technology to execute the administrative and technical activities of the office, including AT LEAST THREE of the above software applications. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to comprehend and assimilate technical information. Communicated with technical and non-technical staff assimilating technical information in a range of disciplines, to include 1) design technology, 2) materials and methods of construction, 3) fire and life safety systems, 4) lighting, 5) HVAC, 6) structure, 7) electrical distribution, and 8) information technology. Answer to this question is required As a supervisor/manager, possessed full responsibility for routinely directing and leading consultations with technical staff in AT LEAST SIX of the above disciplines to coordinate facilities requirements in a large building complex, including disciplines 1) and 2), and communicating technical information to non-technical professionals. As a team member, routinely had a key role in conducting consultations with technical staff in AT LEAST SIX of the above disciplines to coordinate facilities requirements in a large building complex, including disciplines 1) and 2), and communicating technical information to non-technical professionals. As a team member, occasionally had a key role in conducting consultations with technical staff in AT LEAST FOUR of the above disciplines to coordinate facilities requirements in a building complex, including disciplines 1) and 2). None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to write technical documents. Drafted original, authoritative, and technical materials related to facilities design and construction to obtain resources, provide information, and establish direction. Examples include 1) organizational policies and procedures, 2) scopes/statements of work, 3) technical evaluations, 4) contract proposals, 5) inter-agency agreements, 6) executive summaries, 7) policy statements, and 8) reports and memoranda. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote ALL of the above documents relating to facilities design and construction. As a principal author, independently wrote AT LEAST SIX (6) of the above documents relating to facilities design and construction OR under the review of others, participated in writing ALL of the above documents related to facilities design and construction. Under the review of others, participated in writing AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above documents relating to facilities design and construction. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to interact collaboratively with others, exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide consultation and liaison services. The ability to work well and cooperate with others. Exercise judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipate their current and future needs and exchange accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish work. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with senior level managers, supervisors, staff, contractors, clients, designers and others inside and outside the organization to ensure construction administration and project management matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with supervisors, staff, clients and others inside and outside the organization to ensure construction administration and project management matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts primarily internal to the organization exercising judgment and discretion and ensuring construction administration and project management matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues. Exercised judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. None of the Above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).