Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following functions can you NOT perform? If multiple items apply, choose the one closest to the top of the list that is still accurate. By making a selection, you are indicating you CANNOT perform this work. If you can perform all functions, choose the last item. Answer to this question is required Working in enclosed spaces on a regular basis Working for an hour at a time in an area that is uncomfortably cold or hot Working in areas that are more dusty or greasy than a typical office environment Lifting objects weighing up to 80 pounds Climbing stairs and ladders Turning large valves Reading small gauges I can perform ALL the above functions 2 Are you impaired in your senses of smell, vision, hearing or touch that, even with accommodation, you cannot detect mechanical problems, or determine the quality of a repair you've made? Your answer may be validated against medical records, job references and other available information. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Can you lift an amount equal to your own body weight? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Indicate which hardware/equipment you have installed at least three times, without direct supervision. Answer to this question is required Check valves Condensate lines Expansion tanks Float valves High pressure air lines High pressure regulating valves High pressure storage tanks High pressure traps High temperature, hot water balancing valves High temperature, hot water control valves High temperature, hot water expansion tanks High temperature, hot water heating coils High temperature, hot water makeup feeder lines High temperature, hot water regulating valves High temperature, hot water shutoff valves High temperature, hot water strainers Radiators Relief valves Steam coils Steam lines Steam traps Steam valves Other hardware and equipment not listed here None of these 5 Complete the following sentence accurately: "Without supervision, I have ______________ as part of making repairs." Answer to this question is required cut and thread brass pipe cut and thread black pipe cut and thread galvanized pipe not done any of these 6 Have you soldered or brazed pipe using Prest-O-Lite or oxygen/acetylene equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following tasks have you completed in order to plan modifications or installations? Answer to this question is required Set up system routes Place and cut route openings Place hangers for proper pitch and elevation Other tasks not listed here None of these tasks 8 Which of the following have you consulted on a regular basis in order to effect repairs or install equipment? Answer to this question is required Building plans or construction blueprints Engineering drawings or piping diagrams Plumbing or pipefitting repair manuals Written work orders Verbal/personal instructions from a supervisor or technical lead Other resources not listed here None of these 9 Complete the following sentence accurately: "I have formally planned ______________ installations or repairs." Answer to this question is required steam system air system gas system potable water system high temperature water system another system not mentioned here none of these 10 For which of the following have you chosen the right tool in order to effect repairs? Answer to this question is required Steam coils Expansion tanks Steam lines Condensate lines Radiators Other equipment not listed here None of these View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.