Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please describe your demonstrated experience in developing, implementing short- and long-term strategic planning and development over entire business programs and activities and collaborating with mangers and senior officials on efficient and effective program execution. This should include experience in formulating and implementing strategic priorities, goal setting, establishing metrics and reporting protocols. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Please describe your skill in preparing operating budgets and capital expenditure plans, and in leveraging alternative funding sources to support sustainable and fiscally responsible organizational growth. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please describe your skill in building cooperative relationships between colleagues and organizations within your oversight, and with stakeholders inside and outside the Institution. This includes explaining positions/solutions, both orally and in writing, and gaining acceptance by museum and/or research facility colleagues and customers/managers at all levels.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Please describe your skills in leading, supervising, and managing a multi-disciplinary and talented workforce, including fostering teamwork and high morale, as well as attracting, retaining, and motivating employees. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.