Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a bachelor's from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that included or was supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. OR I have a combination of education and experience--Applicants who have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree, but who do not meet the specific course requirements shown above meet minimum qualification requirements if they have completed at least one full academic year of professional teaching experience at the elementary or secondary school level as appropriate to the position to be filled. Professional teaching experience is defined as full and primary responsibility for the instruction of assigned students under general supervision in a recognized or accredited school or other accredited educational institution. This includes responsibility for preparation and presentation of lessons and the evaluation of students' progress throughout the learning period, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria. OR I have a teacher certification or licensure in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants using Option A or B to qualify MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants using Option C to qualify, MUST submit proof of Teacher certification or licensure. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Teachers must possess good skills to communicate with students/inmates in a correctional setting as well as with a variety of other individuals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented overview of program area for Agency staff; and/or I have spoken to members from trade advisory board or citizen volunteer groups; and/or I have provided oral updates regarding specific area during formal meeting with supervisor/managers; and/or I have discussed enrollment procedures and course curriculum; and/or I have discussed progress with students/inmates or education review team. I have made presentation to a professional organization at a conference; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work related issues; and/or I have successfully counseled and calmed hostile/contentious students/inmates; and/or I have lectured at a post secondary institution. I have briefed management and/or others on information pertaining to student/inmate education; and/or I have communicated with outside organization/individuals in an effort to enhance classroom instruction; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution. None of the above. 6 Teachers work in a correctional setting providing instruction to individuals from various backgrounds. He/she conducts and documents initial and progressive education interviews.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in development and implementation of course objectives for others; and/or I have assisted in implementing assessment tools for others; and/or I have assisted in creating supplemental activities for others; and/or I have assisted in identifying learning strategies and materials for others. I have provided instructor-skills training to teach others regarding teaching students/inmates of a varying background; and/or I have demonstrated how to develop curriculum and supplemental activities to integrate different content and perspectives; and/or I have taught ways to develop communication skills in dealing with various backgrounds; and/or I have developed and taught motivational techniques to encourage students to explore and explain their unique backgrounds. I have developed curriculum appropriate for students/inmates of various backgrounds; and/or I have developed supplemental activities in order to integrate different content and perspective; and/or I have independently developed and tailored motivational techniques for varying student/inmate population. None of the above. 7 Teachers must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner, as he/she has contact with institution, regional and Central Office staff via written communication. He/she must prepare documents and correspondence related to educational needs and programs, as well as prepare information memoranda for the student/inmate population. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in an internal audit and documented findings; and/or I have as part of a group, updated local policies; and/or I have assisted others with developing and issuing guidance related to new procedures or hours of operation for the department or organization; and/or I have contributed written documentation for part of a newsletter. I have written new procedures for program for Supervisor’s review; and/or I have provided written information for Supervisor to be included in a group email to others in response to various educational inquiries; and/or I have identified remedial needs and interests of the students/inmates and documented needs for Supervisor; and/or I have documented student/inmate progress for Supervisor through written reports and re-testing. I have prepared a written response as a participant during an external audit; and/or I have edited an Institution Supplement or other comparable document in the private sector; and/or I have written a memorandum for Supervisor relating to the educational needs of a student/inmate; and/or I have written lessons addressing different instructional needs. None of the above. 8 Teachers develop and modify curricula to meet the various learning needs of students/inmates. He/she uses his/her knowledge of curriculum design to develop courses appropriate for adult learners. He/she may modify curriculum by creating supplemental activities and assessing student/inmate progress. He/she may teach in multiple program areas, and therefore, develop lessons using interactive audiovisual aides, group discussion, and computer-assisted instruction with modifications for a variety of students/inmates.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in development and implementation of course objectives for others; and/or I have assisted in implementing assessment tools for others; and/or I have assisted in creating supplemental activities for others; and/or I have assisted in identifying learning strategies and materials for others. I have as a group member, modified course objectives; and/or I have as a group member, identified entrance assessment tools; and/or I have modified course material as a group member. I have developed and implemented course objectives for a variety of courses; and/or I have developed assessment tools; and/or I have developed and organized curriculum content; and/or I have used a variety of learning strategies to develop curriculum; and/or I have developed and implemented a record-keeping database to organize and track student/inmate progress through identified course work. None of the above. 9 Teachers utilize a variety of assessment measures to develop effective education plans for his/her students/inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected, administered and scored formal and informal diagnostic tests for a variety of classes and levels; and/or I have interpreted assessment results for other professionals; and/or I have developed a variety of appropriate remedial strategies for other professionals; and/or I have provided expertise to other professionals to evaluate student/inmate progress. I have participated with the administration and scoring of informal diagnostic tests; and/or I have participated in developing remedial strategies; and/or I have participated in assessing progress by assisting with retesting. I have selected, administered and scored informal diagnostic tests for specific classes; and/or I have interpreted assessment results; and/or I have independently developed a variety of appropriate remedial strategies for own use; and/or I have assessed progress using formal and informal measures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).