Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of troubleshooting techniques and analysis.** Applied knowledge of troubleshooting IT systems by performing the following techniques: 1) identifying the problem; 2) formulating theory of probable cause; 3) validating the theory; 4) developing an action plan; 5) executing an action plan; 6) evaluating results; and 7) documenting trials and solutions for ongoing reference and improvement. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge in performing ALL of the above to troubleshoot IT systems. Applied extensive knowledge in performing FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above to troubleshoot IT systems. Applied extensive knowledge performing THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above to troubleshoot IT systems. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of compliance and vulnerability remediation.** Skilled in identifying and prioritizing security vulnerabilities across systems and applications. Develops and coordinates efficient remediation processes to ensure compliance with security policies (NIST, DISA STIGs, CIS) and federal standards. Proficient in analyzing and resolving weaknesses using advanced vulnerability management and risk mitigation techniques. Answer to this question is required Coordinated and implemented a significant part or ALL of the compliance and vulnerability remediation. Participated in a significant part of the compliance and vulnerability remediation. Participated in a part of the compliance and vulnerability remediation. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge and experience managing workstation configuration lifecycle management.** Applied knowledge of configuration management techniques and performed the following: 1) classified and managed systems; 2) centrally modified configurations; 3) deployed settings and controls; 4) automated system identification and updates; 5) facilitated process improvement and configuration updates; 6) deployed configurations as part of controlled build process; and 7) inventoried software and hardware. Answer to this question is required Managed and administered configuration management technologies displaying master level knowledge. Utilized ALL of the methods and techniques listed above. Managed and administered configuration management technologies displaying expert level knowledge. Utilized FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the methods and techniques listed above. Managed and administered configuration management technologies displaying proficient level knowledge. Utilized FOUR (4) of the methods and techniques listed above. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge and experience scripting for workstations. Leveraged scripting (powershell or bash/shell) to manage endpoint systems by performing the following: 1) Automate repetitive tasks; 2) Configure system settings and policies; 3) Perform bulk operations across multiple machines; 4) Generate reports on system health, inventory or user activity; 5) Collect system information (logs, services, processes, network configurations); 6) Deploy and configure software; and 7) Work with APIs/Web Services. Answer to this question is required Independently used AT LEAST SIX (6) of the methods listed above. Independently used FIVE (5) of the methods listed above. Independently used THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the methods listed above. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to write technical documents. Prepared clear, cogent, understandable, and well-organized technical documents such as: 1) requirements documents; 2) technical specifications design documents; 3) test and implementation plans; and 4) policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required Prepared a variety of technical documents including ALL of the above and analytical and evaluative studies for dissemination to every level of an organization. Prepared a variety of technical documents including THREE (3) of the above and analytical and evaluative studies for communicating with technical staff in an organization. Prepared a variety of technical documents including TWO (2) of the above OR prepared segments of technical documents such as those listed above and analytical and evaluative studies for a project team. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).