Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you&nbsp;possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience related to storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment. I have performed storage, delivery, and set up activities for furniture and equipment as an apprentice or under close supervision. I have independently stored, delivered, and set up furniture and equipment. I have led or instructed others on proper techniques to store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment. 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 4 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising and/or leading workers who store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising and/or leading this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical material handler work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised and/or lead this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 5 Which of the following tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Summarized work performed Completed disciplinary forms Completed absentee reports Developed work plans Researched equipment Created/updated and closed work orders Ordered Supplies Documented resolution of client concerns None of the above 6 Select the written material you have interpreted to setup a room. Answer to this question is required Diagrams drawn to scale Diagrams not drawn to scale Email messages Text messages Work orders Photographs Digital monitor displays None of the above 7 Select the warehousing activities you have performed. Answer to this question is required Laid out storage space Established item locations Determined organization and arrangement of stock Identified high and low usage items according to organizational policies/procedures Developed space utilization plans None of the above 8 Do you have experience adjusting work schedules to accommodate last-minute priority requests for service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the items you have experience moving and setting up in rooms. Answer to this question is required Collapsible tables (e.g., round, rectangle) Rigid tables (e.g., conference tables) Podiums Desks Chairs (e.g., stacking, folding) Easels Pianos Floor risers None of the above 10 I have independently stacked and moved different materials considering the height, weight and special handling requirements of the material to prevent damage. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience operating motor vehicles to complete work assignments. Answer to this question is required I have performed pre-trip inspections, determined my route, and operated motor vehicles to complete tasks as scheduled. I have operated a motor vehicle on a set route to complete tasks. I have operated a motor vehicle as part of my job. I have loaded / unloaded materials from motor vehicles as part of my job. None of the above. 12 Which materials handling equipment have you used/operated to move or haul items (e.g., furniture, construction debris, materials or equipment)? Answer to this question is required Pallet jacks (manual) Pallet jacks (electric/battery operated) Forklifts Utility carts Dollies / Hand trucks Furniture gliders / sliders Flat-bed trucks None of the above 13 What type of heavy powered equipment do you have experience operating and maintaining? Answer to this question is required Tool Cat Walk behind floor buffer Wall washers Carpet Cleaners/Shampooers Ride-on sweeper Vacuum Cleaners Burnishing Machines None of the above 14 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Safety Data Sheets None of the above 15 Select the personal protective equipment (PPE) you have experience using. Answer to this question is required Full body suits Respirators Goggles Gloves Safety shoes None of the above 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.