Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and evaluating performance; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 In a correctional setting, Electrical Worker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience with correctional administration, criminology, penology or a related field; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e. safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems). I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. None of the above. 4 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be able to select and use proper material while working on electrical equipment and systems which include, for example, a broad knowledge of gauges, sizes and types of wiring, circuits and circuit breakers, conduits, couplings, fittings, relays, boxes, transformers, controls and distribution panels, high volt substations and related distribution systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Through training and experience in various fields of electrical work, I have knowledge of various electrical systems and equipment such as transformers, generators, line systems and power substations; and/or I have supervised or assisted competent journeymen in determining solutions of theoretical and the completion of work- practical problems concerning electrical equipment and systems. I have sufficient knowledge of electrical equipment and systems and experience to operate in any job that is normally done; and/or I have laid out, planned, and carried through the tasks of an electrician with limited supervision; and/or I have needed assistance or advice on unusual or special problems; and/or I have completed a formal apprenticeship program. I have sufficient knowledge of equipment to be able to perform routine tasks of the electrical trade without assistance; and/or I have needed assistance and required supervision for jobs which demand application of this knowledge in order to solve new problems; and/or I have worked as an electrician's apprentice. I have knowledge sufficient to enable me to perform all technical tasks without supervision and other tasks with a minimum of supervision; and/or I am formally licensed as an electrician; and/or I have received formal training in National Electric Code. None of the above. 5 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of the theory behind electricity and have knowledge of instruments such as: ammeters, meggers, voltmeters, ohmmeters, wattmeters, frequency meters, millivoltmeters with shunts, bridges, oscilloscopes, industrial analyzers, attenuator, signal generators, and phase rotation indicators. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have knowledge of electrical theory and am familiar with Ohm's Law; and/or I have experience which demonstrates the use of electrical test equipment to include: meggers, ammeters, multimeters, wattmeters, frequency meters, and ohmmeters. I have knowledge of electrical theory to work theoretical problems involving voltage, resistance, and current; and/or I have experience which demonstrates the use of electrical test equipment to include: phase meters, millivoltmeters, and milliammeters. I have knowledge of electrical theory gained in a formal education program (college level, upper echelon military trade school or a formal apprentice program); and/or I have experience which demonstrates the use of electrical test equipment to include: industrial analyzers, voltmeters, tube testers, oscilloscopes, and signal generators. None of the above. 6 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be proficient in the installation, modification, repair, and test of electrical systems, circuits and devices such as distribution panels, electronic controls, electrical warning, detection and fire-alarm systems, high intensity lighting systems, and power, control and switch-gear circuits. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have improvised tools and materials to aid in carrying out tasks; and/or I have applied new ideas to jobs; and/or I have adhered to good work practices such as following specifications, and electrical codes; and/or I have kept informed of latest theories in the trade; and/or I have followed OSHA safety requirements. Using pertinent manuals, electrical diagrams, and blueprints, I have made modifications in electrical systems and switch from one technique to another in accomplishing tasks; and/or I have used practical knowledge in contributing ideas for the solution of problems; and/or I have kept informed of and applied recent developments in the electrician trade to tasks as needed. I have adhered to shop practices in conserving materials; and/or I have accomplished tasks economically; and/or I am knowledgeable in the science of electricity; and/or under supervision, I have completed difficult tasks. I have conducted/performed arc and flash hazard assessments on high voltage equipment; and/or I have determined appropriate OSHA safety requirements regarding work on electrical equipment. None of the above. 7 Electrical Worker Supervisors must be able to effectively work from plans, blueprints, wiring diagrams and engineering drawings in the electrical trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have read and interpreted diagrams for internal and external connections of electrical equipment such as: motor controllers, switch boxes, and generators, on multi phase circuits. I have read diagrams used in installing or replacing generators, motors and transformers; and/or I have used schematics in installation of and diagnosing malfunctions. I have read and interpreted diagrams and used schematics while working with guidance and assistance in interpretation. None of the above. 8 Electrical Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use tools common to the electrical trade such as: wire cutters and strippers, drills, soldering irons, screwdrivers, hydraulic benders, heavy pipe threading machines, power actuated tools, coil-spreaders, tapping machines, lathes, drill presses, reamers, cable-pulling devices, pipe-cutting devices, balancing mechanisms, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the common hand and power tools of the trade such as hydraulic and hand binders, drills, and reamers; and/or while using the proper safety protective equipment, I have used equipment correctly and avoided damage to the equipment. I have used/maintained high voltage detection equipment; and/or I have determined proper safety protective clothing; and/or I have performed maintenance work on tools and equipment including preventive maintenance; and/or I have made adjustments on equipment to operating tolerances. I have used common tools and equipment such as voltmeters, and ammeters, as instructed. None of the above. 9 Electrical Worker Supervisors must have the ability to trace, locate and repair defects in electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used instruments such as bridges, voltmeters, and ohmmeters, to locate malfunctions; and/or I have diagnosed common troubles and determined a remedy using schematics, charts, diagrams; and/or I have located a fault and reset it (broken fuse and line). I have used voltmeters and other instruments to find loose connections and shorts; and/or I have worked, with supervisory assistance, to understand circuits. I have used schematics and drawings to determine the source of malfunctions; and/or I have used all necessary test equipment to locate and correct malfunctions; and/or I have sized and coordinated fuses for a complex system. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).