Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 in the Federal Service. For this position specialized experience is defined as experience planning, implementing, and evaluating the requirements of a safety and occupational health program for work activities and environments. Experience must also include developing occupational safety guidance; training personnel on safety-related topics; applying safety and occupational health laws; inspecting workplaces for compliance and hazards; investigating incidents, reviewing designs, drawings and safety plans; conducting ergonomic assessments; and maintaining safety-related databases. I do not meet the requirement described above. 2 Which of the following statements demonstrates your experience in identifying and correcting safety hazards as a rounte and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified and made recommendations to correct fire hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct electrical hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct tool or machinery hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct chemical/environmental hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct ventilation hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct noise hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct ergonomic hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct traffic or parking area hazards. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to heights. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to confined spaces. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to compressed gases (oxygen, acetylene, propane, etc.). I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to transportation and motor vehicle operations. I have identified and made recommendations to correct hazards related to warehousing operations. I have conducted audits and/or evaluations of occupational safety and health programs. I have made recommendations for corrective actions and special emphasis programs to reduce or eliminate occupational hazards and promote safe behaviors. I participated in the implementation of corrective actions and special emphasis programs to reduce or eliminate occupational hazards and promote safe behaviors. I have provided advice and assistance for the interpretation and application of occupational safety and health standards, policies, and procedures. I have developed and implemented best practices for occupational safety and health. I have participated in the evaluation of new equipment prior to acquisition or use to ensure compliance with Federal requirements and applicable consensus guidelines. I have provided occupational safety and health oversight for construction/renovation projects to ensure minimal impact on building occupants and to ensure contractor compliance with applicable safety and health standards. I have developed emergency response and/or preparedness plans. I have provided safety support to my organization’s emergency management functions. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following types of equipment have you used to assess safety hazards?&nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Noise dosimeter Sound level meter Calibration equipment Colorimetric detector tubes Photo ionization or flame ionization detector Combustible gas meter Radiation detector Pitot tube Air velocity meters. Particle counter Confined space monitor Multi-gas meter Light meter Tribometer Moisture meter Voltage/Continuity Tester Receptacle Tester None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your ability to conduct investigations of safety and health mishaps? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have participated as a team member in investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have led or independently investigated minor safety and health incidents. I have participated as a team member in investigations of minor safety and health incidents. I do not have any experience in this area. 5 Which of the following statements best represents your experience in developing and managing safety programs for multiple worksites? Answer to this question is required I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing diverse work activities that are geographically dispersed. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing similar work activities that are geographically dispersed. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing diverse work activities that are located within a single geographic region. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites performing similar work activities that are located within a single geographic region. I do not have the experience described. 6 Which of the following safety program elements have you have been responsible for preparing, performing, or overseeing as a routine and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Regular worksite inspections Job hazard analysis Preparing accident/incident reports OSHA recordkeeping determinations, log, and reporting Preparation or significant updates of disaster plans Acquiring and maintaining Safety Data Sheets Tracking mandatory safety training Medical monitoring and surveillance Monitoring exposure to radiation or hazardous chemicals Hazardous waste management Issuing hotwork permits Generator training Fall protection programs, training, and equipment Lock-out/tag-out procedures Personal protective equipment Confined space entry procedures Maintaining logs/records of safety deficiencies and corrective actions Organizing and convening a safety committee for an organization or facility Communicating safety policy and standards to staff or tenants Chemical hazard communication Fire extinguisher maintenance Asbestos abatement Lead abatement None of the above 7 Describe your experience with techniques and methods used to develop, coordinate, evaluate, and deliver occupational safety and health training.&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have participated as a member of a team working on the development, implementation and management of comprehensive safety and health training and outreach programs using a variety of delivery systems. I have led and coordinated efforts to develop, implement and manage comprehensive safety and health training and outreach programs using a variety of delivery systems. I have participated as a member of a team working on the development of standardized training and education materials such as course syllabi, course outlines, detailed lesson plans, and quizzes, in support of an occupational safety and health program. I have led the development of standardized training and education materials such as course syllabi, course outlines, detailed lesson plans, and quizzes, in support of an occupational safety and health program. I have evaluated and proposed modifications to instructional materials, tests, training aids, other learning devices, and instruction methods. I have coordinated the logistics of various training activities I have developed video scripts for safety and health training I have experience with designing and developing web-based training and materials using various software packages and web programming languages. I have conducted occupational safety and health training or presentations for small groups (less than 20). I have conducted occupational safety and health training or presentations for large groups (more than 20). I have conducted training and/or presentations for employees and union representatives. I have conducted training and/or presentations for supervisors and managers. I have assisted with the planning, coordinating, and staffing of small outreach events (less than 200 people). I have led the planning, coordinating, and staffing of small outreach events (less than 200 people). I have assisted with the planning, coordinating, and staffing of large outreach events (more than 200 people). I have led the planning, coordinating, and staffing of large outreach events (more than 200 people). I have no knowledge or experience in this area of competency. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience providing interpersonal communication in support of an organization (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization. I have explained technical or other complex information to wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discuss issues and options available with program managers. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management?s views to them and to identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance and knowledge. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best reflects your ability to review and analyze large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in reviewing and analyzing large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards. I have assisted a team in reviewing and analyzing large constructions plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards under close supervision I have independently reviewed and analyzed large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff under close review by a supervisor. I have independently reviewed and analyzed large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff without review by a supervisor. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating information in written format? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have provided written reports of findings/solutions. I have written official directives, instructions and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written health and safety plans for worksites at government buildings/facilities. I have written health and safety plans for worksites, operated environmental monitoring instruments to detect airborne contaminants, and determined the level of personal protective gear required. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 11 Which of the following statement(s) describe the written communication/briefing skills you have used to convey information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive materials for reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials. I have compiled text and images from various sources and edited cohesive reports that are well-organized and appropriate for the intended audience. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in writing. I have not performed any of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience providing teamwork services (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have served on a problem solving, planning or goal setting committee or team. I have served on a team which included individuals from different occupations and diverse and/or conflicting interests/backgrounds. I have served on a team with individuals who share common interests/backgrounds. I have completed tasks critical to the successful and/or timely completion of a whole team`s outcome. I have led a team or group of experts of various disciplines and completed work within prescribed schedule. I have developed work plans and project objectives with team members. I have participated in presentation of team results and/or findings to audiences outside immediate organization, including: government officials, public and/or special interest groups, representatives of a regulated industry. I have taught or coached team building skills in day-to-day activities, training classes, workshops, seminars and/or other settings. I have played a key role in the development of team recommendations for use in technical or policy decision making or policy development documents. I have taken a position that is different than the team`s consensus. I have presented findings to team members and/or other peers. None of the above. 13 Which of the following software applications have you used as a regular part of your job? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Safety-related data management software for inspections, hazard reporting, and tracking of corrective actions. Safety-related data management software for injury/illness reporting. Safety training data management software. Graphic or presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Acrobat, Microsoft Visio) Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus) Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word) Design review software (e.g. I-manage, Kahua, other) None of the above 14 Which of the following best describes your experience using spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) for each of the following purposes. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used spreadsheet software to create data tables, charts and graphs from scratch. I have used spreadsheet software to sort, filter and rearrange data. I have created formulas in spreadsheets to perform calculations. I have created pivot tables to summarize complex data in spreadsheets. I have added/updated data in an existing spreadsheet. I have made recommendations based on the results from my spreadsheets and formatted the results for use in reports and/or presentations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.