Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Management Analyst must possess the ability to effectively converse on a recurring basis with a wide variety of individuals, ranging from co-workers, institutions, regional offices, Central Office, applicants to high-ranking officials of the Department of Justice (DOJ), and other government agencies.&nbsp; He/she must be able to communicate with the Department of Justice (DOJ) hiring practices and requirements to a varied audience. He/she provides analysis and advice in the area of interpreting and responding to policy directives of the Bureau&rsquo;s Director.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exchanged/disseminated information to management staff regarding personnel issues or equivalent; and/or I have interpreted various Department of Justice (DOJ) directives to organization management staff; and/or I have led a work group such as diversity, etc.; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline. I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have provided advice and direction regarding hiring practices to Human Resources staff; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from organization staff Bureau-wide. I have exchanged information with personnel from Department of Justice (DOJ)/other federal and non-federal agencies; and/or I have advised upper-management on matters relating to and/or other personnel issues, hiring practices, training requirements, and department policy; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to Bureau staff and others; and/or I have actively participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with external contractors, private sector vendors, and various company officials; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/Chief Executive Officer (CEO’s), and provided recommendations for improvements on discrepancies noted. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, policy, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice (DOJ) officials, agency executives, managers, and line staff. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax, and format in order to effectively prepare/edit letters, papers for high level use.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have grammatically corrected correspondence prior to signature; and/or I have prepared re-occurring responses to internal inquiries; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes for management staff; and/or I have prepared draft policies; and/or I have prepared personnel actions. I have prepared legal recruitment materials; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue; and/or I have prepared positions descriptions; and/or I have conducted special studies and projects and briefed various officials; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have prepared written and/or edited responses to internal agency requests received; and/or I have composed memoranda to division managers and staff about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report. I have prepared memorandum to management staff explaining department directives; and/or I have prepared instructional material for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training; and/or I have reviewed and prepared internal documents/reports/correspondence which impacted operations or equivalent; and/or I have prepared reports/correspondence to outside entities. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs.&nbsp; He/she must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure requirements are met in a timely manner.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified processes to meet internal or external customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for the branch; and/or I have successfully met due date requirements for multiple projects; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for managers; and/or I have collected information and made recommendations to increase services provided to staff. I have planned and implemented specific Corporate projects from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the management goals; and/or I have managed multiple projects successfully to completion; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for Executive Staff management; and/or I have organized the purchasing of resource (i.e., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions, etc.); and/or I have planned and coordinated various meetings and special projects which are designed to improve the operations and decision making process of the bureau or equivalent. I have planned processes to meet or complete normal requirements; and/or I have recommended items for data processing; and/or I have managed accountable data for branch managers; and/or I have briefed supervisor on issues encountered in completing projects; and/or I have assisted on a team responsible for gathering data, evaluating practices, and making proposed changes aimed at increasing effectiveness of a program. None of the above. 7 The Management Analyst must be able to establish and maintain good working relationships with staff at all levels both inside and outside the agency. &nbsp;He/she is expected to work with staff within various divisions, branches, and sections in order to complete projects assigned.&nbsp; Therefore, it is essential to possess excellent communication skills and build relationships in order to complete tasks.&nbsp; He/she must develop contacts and maintain working relationships with staff at all levels at Department of Justice (DOJ), Bureau of Prisons (BOP), and other Federal, State, and local entities. He/she will also be required to interact with and develop and maintain professional relationship with the private sector.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing backgrounds and cultures; and/or I have communicated information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level; and/or I have worked with staff and others in developing training materials and schedules; and/or I have briefed staff within the office concerning internal operations. I have assisted with a training seminar for peers; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings and presented information; and/or I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have recognized possible conflict and took corrective action before it escalated. I have coordinated, established, and maintained relationship with executive level agency/organization employees on complex issues; and/or I have assisted in recruitment activities at schools, job fairs, and other groups; and/or I have led a workgroup to develop and modify diversity initiatives; and/or I have proposed alternative solutions to management problems regarding position control and budgets. None of the above. 8 The Management Analyst is involved in gathering and evaluating information on topics and issues having direct impact on legal operations Bureau-wide.&nbsp; The information gathered, analyzed, and prepared by him/her is used for a variety of purposes, such as keeping management abreast of issues and trends as they relate to hiring and retention, and personnel issues.&nbsp; He/she must analyze reports, surveys, data, and complex problems, determine inconsistencies, and inform management of issues needing attention.&nbsp; He/she also utilizes automated systems to perform analytical tasks, etc.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed detailed analyses to assure the completeness, accuracy, and currency of personnel related actions; and/or I have analyzed research and evaluation reports and made recommendations based upon the analysis; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated management information as it relates to budgetary control, personnel staffing; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future research; and/or I have used a variety of resource venues to collect statistical data which was included in a major report. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed Department of Justice (DOJ) statistical data regarding employment trends and presented findings to management staff; and/or I have employed the use of multi-variant techniques while involved in a trend study; and/or I have made suggestions/recommendations during the management assessment process. I have obtained data from national data/information sources to assist in program planning activities; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis, and reporting of program assessments; and/or I have identified new recruitment strategies to address personnel needs; and/or I have made recommendations during a workgroup for policy issuance or modifications. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).