Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Business Administrators must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the preparation or reconciliation of proof checks; and/or I have trained or knowledgeable of obligation process; and/or I have reviewed financial reports to ensure the buildings and facilities projects are not over obligated. I have reviewed proof checks; and/or I have analyzed obligations and discovered errors; and/or I have determined buildings and facilities project should be capitalized or expensed. I have assisted with the reviewing of proof checks; and/or I have reviewed obligations; and/or I have assisted in making a determination if buildings and facilities project should be capitalized or expensed. None of the above. 3 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized budget data for quarterly/annual budget submissions; and/or I have prepared quarterly and annual financial reports; and/or I have completed one federal budget training course. I have assisted in the preparation of annual budget requests; and/or I have followed established guidelines/user guides for operating fund control program and/or local financial management systems; and/or I have completed one college level course in Accounting. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new Department Heads/Cost Center Managers. None of the above. 4 Business Administrators must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prioritized work flow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. I have analyzed workflow and made recommendation to supervisor; and/or I have met the due date for a project; and/or I have adjusted duties of others, with supervisor’s approval, to respond to immediate needs. I have insured due dates were met for sectional project; and/or I have adjusted staff priorities to respond to sectional requirements/needs; and/or I have analyzed workflow of peers or subordinates and made recommendations to supervisor. None of the above. 5 Business Administrators must be able to prepare written correspondence and reports and be able to give oral presentations on financial matters to other department heads, executives, and regional staff. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed lesson plan and presented training to other staff and/or inmates; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for meetings with co-workers; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for financial staff; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information for department head meetings; and/or I have prepared financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have conducted informal training for staff; and/or I have provided input into the reports and exhibits for meetings with co-workers; and/or I have provided financial information for the preparation of financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). None of the above. 6 Business Administrators must be able to enter and retrieve data from automated financial systems. They also gather and analyze data from automated financial systems. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed obligation reports to assist with fund control or ensured cost centers are not over obligated; and/or I have reviewed personal or real property reports for accuracy; and/or I have completed one training course on automated financial systems. I have operated Fund Control programs; and/or I have submitted payments in the financial management information system; and/or I have generated reports from financial management information system needed to prepare proof-checks. I have certified payments in the financial management information system; and/or I have certified allotments and/or reprogrammed funds in the Budget Module; and/or I have posted new entries in sentry property management systems or sentry real property management system. None of the above. 7 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of purchasing and inventory practices to oversee the purchasing and inventory operations. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared request for purchase; and/or I have assisted accountable property officer in identifying inventory in his/her area; and/or I have reconciled monthly purchase card statement. I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of the terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have reviewed inventory records to determine any discrepancies. I have assisted with property walk-thru; and/or I have received Federal Credit Card training; and/or I have worked with contracting officer to resolve discrepancies in purchase orders or contacts. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Business Administrators must be able to organize and evaluate accounting data in order to maintain the financial operations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the reviewing of proof checks; and/or I have reviewed obligations; and/or I have assisted in making a determination if B&F project should be capitalized or expensed I have detected errors on proof checks and returned them for corrective actions; and/or I have discovered errors in obligations, analyzed the problem, and directed corrective action; and/or I have determined B&F projects should be a capitalized or expensed and monitored the accounting entries. I have reviewed proof checks; and/or I analyzed obligations and discovered errors; and/or I have determined B&F projects should be capitalized or expensed. None of the above. 3 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized budget data for quarterly/annual budget submissions; and/or I have prepared quarterly and annual financial reports; and/or I have completed one (1) federal budget training course. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new department heads/cost center managers. I have restructured budget transactions to determine errors and omissions; and/or I have compared the CORS or Expenditure and Allotment (E&A) reports to the FMIS-DBM reports to ensure plans balance; and/or I have developed budgets consistent with agency guidelines at the local level. None of the above. 4 Business Administrators must be able to enter and retrieve data as well as, gather and analyze data from automated financial systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have operated Fund Control programs; and/or I have submitted payments in FMIS; and/or I have generated reports from FMIS needed to prepare proof checks. I have reviewed and resolved error messages produced from automated accounting systems; and/or I have provided training and assistance to others in using the automated financial systems (FMIS, Fund Control, SPMS, SRPMS); and/or I have conducted research and provided explanations of variances using automated financial systems. I have certified payments in FMIS; and/or I have certified allotments and/or reprogrammed funds in the Budget Module; and/or I have posted new entries in SPMS or SRPMS. None of the above. 5 Business Administrators must be knowledgeable of purchasing and inventory practices to oversee the purchasing and inventory operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with property walk-thru; and/or I have received Federal Credit Card training; and/or I have worked with contracting officers to resolve discrepancies in purchase orders or contacts. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchasing and contract actions will be competitive or sole source; and/or I have reviewed statements of work; and/or I have reviewed inventory records and assisted in correcting discrepancies in inventory records. I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of the terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have reviewed inventory records to determine any discrepancies. None of the above. 6 Business Administrators must be able to supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed current financial operations to develop new procedures or made adjustments to existing procedures; and/or I have performed long range planning and goal setting for the organization; and/or I have coordinated staff in completing special projects prior to due date. I have ensured due dates were met for sectional projects; and/or I have adjusted staff priorities to respond to sectional requirements/needs; and/or I have analyzed workflow of peers or subordinates and made recommendations to supervisors. I have prioritized workflow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workloads to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. None of the above. 7 Business Administrators must be able to prepare written correspondence and reports and be able to give oral presentations on financial matters to other department heads, executives and regional staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for financial staff; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits, and presented financial information for department head meetings; and/or I have prepared financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have reviewed lesson plans and presented training to other staff and/or inmates; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits, and presented financial information for meetings with co-workers; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of financial information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). I have developed lesson plans and conducted training for department heads and program managers; and/or I have prepared reports and exhibits and presented financial information at budget meetings at the executive staff level; and/or I have reviewed and ensured accuracy of accounting information for certifications (obligations, receivables, proof checks). None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).