Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience performing administrative and/or clerical duties? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Answering telephones Tracking time and attendance Faxing documents Arranging and coordinating travel Using a computer to prepare documents, forms and other written material Duplicating documents using a photocopy machine Filing documents Greeting and directing visitors in a professional manner Maintaining and organizing office filing systems Arranging and coordinating conferences, lectures and similar meetings Reviewing correspondence for grammar, format and correctness Responding to customer inquiries in a professional environment Receiving, opening and distributing mail Maintaining a suspense system to ensure that work is accomplished in a timely manner Maintaining calendar(s) for supervisor and/or other staff members I have education and/or training in performing these duties, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in this field 3 Which of the following best describes your experience or training in greeting and referring/providing assistance to office visitors? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in greeting and referring or providing assistance to office visitors. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have greeted and referred or provided assistance to office visitors as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in utilizing communication software (i.e., Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook, etc.) to send and retrieve mail? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in utilizing communication software (i.e., Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook, etc.) to send and retrieve mail. I have completed formal education or training in utilizing communication software (i.e., Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook, etc.) to send and retrieve mail, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have utilized communication software (i.e., Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook, etc.) to send and retrieve mail on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have utilized communication software (i.e., Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook, etc.) to send and retrieve mail as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have utilized communication software (i.e., Lotus Notes, Microsoft Outlook, etc.) to send and retrieve mail as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience using software packages such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) research projects? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in using software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) research projects. I have completed training in using software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) research projects, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) research projects, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) research projects, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) research projects, as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following describes your use of Microsoft PowerPoint without assistance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have printed out PowerPoint presentations prepared by others. I have made adjustments to PowerPoint slides prepared by others. I have added graphics or pictures to PowerPoint slides. I have developed narrative PowerPoint slides from scratch. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 7 Which of the following statements below Identifies your skill in using Microsoft Office (Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint) software for personal computers and familiarity with using an automated museum or cultural institution collections management system. Answer to this question is required Expertly skilled in using Microsoft Office (Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint) software for personal computers and familiarity with using an automated museum or cultural institution collections management system. Highly knowledgeable and skilled in using Microsoft Office (Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint) software for personal computers and familiarity with using an automated museum or cultural institution collections management system. Basic skills in using Microsoft Office (Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint) software for personal computers and familiarity with using an automated museum or cultural institution collections management system. I am not skilled in this area. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience using automated office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access or other databases, and SharePoint)? Answer to this question is required I have experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access (or other databases), and SharePoint. I have experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Access (or other databases). I have experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. I have experience with Microsoft Word and Excel. I have experience with Microsoft Word. None of the above. 9 Which of the following procurement services functions have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have approved contracts/agreements and procurement actions (i.e., requisitions, purchase orders). I have prepared total contract packages for new equipment installations, equipment replacement, and recurring maintenance contracts. I have prepared detailed cost estimates for use in obtaining project funding and bid evaluations. I have completed Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR) responsibilities for maintenance contracts relating to facility and/or custodial operations and maintenance. I have procured a wide variety of specialized instrumentation, components, materials, supplies and services. I have maintained a certificate for service contracting up to $5,000.00. I have applied knowledge of procurement and contracting procedures. I have interpreted and applied procurement regulations to use a Government credit card and generate requisitions to acquire hardware, software, other equipment and services. I have developed specifications and determine costs for procurement of equipment and services. I have established small business participation goals and developed practices to assist my organization in reaching those goals. I have received education or training on procurement policies, procedures and techniques but have not performed it on the job. I have not performed any of the above functions. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience with procurement systems? Answer to this question is required I have used eProcurement systems which were integrated with financial systems for obligation purposes as a regular part of my duties. I have had authority to obligate on behalf of an organization for purchases. I have procurement background but have not used systems for these purchases. I have a good systems background but have not made purchases as part of my duties I have no experience in this area. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience performing procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have obtained necessary documentation, certification, or approval in support of actions. I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment, or other items. I have prepared purchase orders and tracked invoices and work orders for contractor services for cost-reimbursable projects. I have entered requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have helped vendors enroll in the organization’s procurement system. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience making a Director or senior management official's travel arrangements including developing complex domestic and international travel itineraries and schedules, booking all reservations for accommodations and preparing and processing all travel authorizations and vouchers in an automated travel system? Answer to this question is required I have experience making a Director or senior management official’s travel arrangements including developing complex domestic and international travel itineraries and schedules, booking all reservations for accommodations and preparing and processing all travel authorizations and vouchers in an automated travel system. I have experience making a senior management official’s travel arrangements including developing complex domestic and international travel itineraries and schedules, booking all reservations for accommodations and preparing and processing all travel authorizations and vouchers in an automated travel system. I have experience making a senior management official’s travel arrangements including developing complex domestic and international travel itineraries and schedules, booking all reservations for accommodations and preparing and processing all travel authorizations and vouchers. I have experience making a senior management official’s travel arrangements including developing complex domestic and international travel itineraries and schedules and booking all reservations for accommodations. I have experience making a senior management official’s travel arrangements. I do not have related experience. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience with planning, coordinating, and arranging meetings, conferences or workshops? Answer to this question is required I have independently planned and coordinated high level conferences/meetings/workshops to include participation on the national level or equivalent echelons in private industry. This included advising attendees on meeting agendas and travel requirements, identifying security issues and arranging for authorized access/entry, making arrangements for conference/meeting rooms and insuring availability of required equipment. I have independently planned and coordinated high level conferences/meetings/workshops within my organization (typically with heads of offices or museums). This included making travel arrangements, insuring proper meeting rooms were reserved, and insuring for proper levels of access. I have independently arranged meetings for my assigned office/organization. This typically involves arranging for a conference room/office, and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the local organization but may have occasionally included other offices or external parties. If travel is involved it is typically arranged for by the attendee's organization/office. I have typically arranged meetings for my office/organization based on specific instructions from my supervisor or other higher-level employee. Arrangements are typically limited to reserving an office or conference room and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees are typically from within the same office/organization. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.