Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with them, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated materials and manpower needed; and/or I have provided training to new workers; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have experience supervising workers in a production environment; and/or I have determined material time, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained employees, intermediate workers or helpers; and/or I have supervised large inmate crew in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs. I have experience in leading small groups of workers; and/or I have requested materials and manpower needed; and/or I have served as team lead on work assignments None of the above. 3 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have indicated interested in working in a correctional institution during an interview; and/or I have displayed no negative information concerning aptitude for work with prisoners. I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 4 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have a variety of experience in general manufacturing processes related to the fabric and/or garment manufacturing field. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in the manufacturing of clothing or fabric goods where quality control applies; and/or I have experience manufacturing garments and/or worked with patterns and markers; and/or I have ability to understand patterns; and/or I have worked in a laundry operation that required alterations of garments. I have experience in a manufacturing plant where commercial procedures are used and the experience involved the total manufacturing process; and/or I have determined yardage requirements; and/or I have matched pattern and weave; and/or I have made alterations. I have performed the manufacturing processes of assembly of any product; and/or I have matched colors and fabric; and/or I have cut and measured materials to specific lengths and width; and/or I have laid out simple patterns. None of the above. 5 Fabric Worker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of new and up-to-date practices in the manufacturing field and the ability to use trade theory in doing more demanding or precise tasks. They must have experience in inventing new ways to do tasks that can not be done by established procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in a production environment; and/or I was part of a production line which required minor inspections of raw materials or finished products; and/or I have assisted in inspection of raw materials or finished products. I have experience in the common manufacturing process of products; and/or I have worked in an environment which required drawings and/or specifications; and/or I have demonstrated ability to diagnose difficult production problems. I have made modifications to manufacturing line to accomplish increased productivity; and/or I have made repairs or alterations. None of the above. 6 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have the ability to select methods to complete manufacturing of a particular item; and/or I have instructed others on how to complete tasks in a manufacturing environment or in general; and/or I have completed manufacturing according to customer specifications. I have the ability to follow general instructions used for repairs; and/or I have followed manuals and procedures to complete work; and/or I have followed instructions to complete manufacturing operations. I have performed work based on simple oral and written instructions from supervisor; and/or I have experience making simple alterations with supervision; and/or I have followed supervisor's instructions on new procedures. None of the above. 7 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use mearsuring tools to lay out work from sketches, drawings or specifications, common to the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made measurements using common measuring devices; and/or I have knowledge of measuring; and/or I have assisted in a process which involved measuring. I have made measurements using common measuring devices and lay out work; and/or I have the ability to do simple calculations to determine yardage; and/or I have the ability to mark parts for assembly. I have made close tolerance measurements; and/or I have laid out work and materials; and/or I have performed checks and made necessary adjustments. None of the above. 8 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use and maintain tools, instruments and related equipment for manufacturing end items and/or garments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have the ability to use common tools to assist in manufacturing processes, sewing or sewing alterations such as irons, sewing machines, needle and thread. I have used rulers and/or yardsticks; and/or I have been involved in a process which required measurement tools; and/or I have assisted in a process which involved measuring. I have used rulers and/or other measuring devices; and/or I have used sewing equipment; and/or I have been responsible for selecting proper tools and materials to complete jobs; and/or I have taught others to use machinery. None of the above. 9 Fabric Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of all the materials used in the variety of trades included in this job. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chosen proper material or made substitutions with assistance; and/or I have sewn simple fabrics such as cotton, rayon, and/or polyester; and/or I have worked with raw materials in one or more trades. I have knowledge of fabrics, elasticity and durability; and/or I have experience with matching seams and use of patterns; and/or I have made repairs to sheets, blankets, towels, hospital gowns, inmate clothing; and/or I have removed spots and stains. I have interpreted specifications, made repairs; and/or I have defined materials needed; and/or I have made acceptable substitutions; and/or I have used materials such as cloth to either manufacture or repair garments/clothing items. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).