Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform administrative management functions for an organization including human resources, budgeting/finance, and contracting/procurement.** Provided administrative management functions for an organization performing the following: 1) acted as a liaison between management and staff; 2) developed and advised on administrative requirements and policies; 3) determined the best use of present resources and assisted in planning for future resources, budgetary, space and equipment needs; 4) ensured personnel and other administrative requirements and deadlines were met; 5) reviewed and analyzed annual budget estimates and justifications; 6) maintained a long-term project/planning calendar; 7) prepared annual staffing, travel, outsourcing and training plans; 8) performed final review for awards, disciplinary actions and other major personnel actions; and 9) ensured personnel, fiscal and procurement policies and practices were followed. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility ROUTINELY performed ALL of the administrative activities above. As a job responsibility ROUTINELY performed EIGHT (8) or SEVEN (7) of the administrative activities above. As a job responsibility ROUTINELY performed SIX (6) of the administrative activities above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to utilize computer technology and applications.** Supported administrative work of an organization by utilizing a variety of software applications to accomplish work assignments including the following: 1) Email; 2) Electronic calendar; 3) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint); 4) the Internet; 5) Word processing software; 6) Spreadsheet software; 7) Database management software (e.g., Access); 8) Automated financial and tracking systems; 9) Automated personnel/payroll data systems (e.g., WebTA, NFC, EmpowHR, eManagement); and 10) Financial management systems (e.g., Momentum); and 11) Various types of office equipment (e.g., digital photocopy machine, scanner, and fax machine). Answer to this question is required Routinely utilized ALL of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. Routinely utilized TEN (10) of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. Routinely utilized NINE (9) of the above office technology applications with no guidance from higher level staff in the performance of multiple administrative activities. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to perform financial activities.** Performed financial activities in accordance with established financial management policies and procedures, and relevant laws and regulations. These ACTIVITIES included: (1) monitoring fund and account balances, obligating funds, and reconciling financial transactions; (2) tracking travel and training expenses and vouchers; (3) conducting financial review and analysis, including verifying accuracy of financial data and resolving discrepancies; (4) creating financial reports, including compiling and summarizing data; (5) assisting with near- or long-term cost forecasting in the personal or non-personal services area; (6) managing payroll activities; (7) conducting cost studies for decision-making processes; and (8) monitoring contract balances and execution rate. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, performed AT LEAST SIX (6) of the above financial activities within a major financial office of an organization or a Federal Agency with an annual operating budget in excess of $50 million. Provided guidance and support to junior staff in these areas. Developed new methods and techniques of budgeting for the forecasting of long-range funding needs (e.g., 3 to 5 years or more into the future); and/or developed timetables for obtaining needed funding for new or modified substantive government programs. Analyzed the potential effects of budgetary actions on program viability and attainment of program objectives. As a primary job responsibility, performed FOUR (4) OR FIVE (5) of the above financial activities within a major financial office of an organization or a Federal Agency with an operating budget in excess of $5 million. Recommended new methods and techniques of budgeting for the forecasting of long-range funding needs (e.g., 3 to 5 years or more into the future); and/or developed timetables for obtaining needed funding for new or modified substantive government programs. Analyzed the potential effects of budgetary actions on program viability and attainment of program objectives. Recommended new methods and techniques of budgeting for the forecasting of long-range funding needs (e.g., 3 to 5 years or more into the future); and/or developed timetables for obtaining needed funding for new or modified substantive government programs. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of human resources management principles and methods. Applied knowledge of the full range of administrative management functions in an organization, specifically in the area of human resources, in order to monitor requirements, interpret policies, and offer guidance for coordinating functions in an organization. Answer to this question is required Served as the principal/expert advisor on ALL administrative management matters for an organization, including human resources matters. This included communicating, interpreting, advising, developing, implementing, and executing administrative management policies and procedures for the ongoing operation of an organization. Served as an administrative officer, providing the full range of administrative functions and providing advice and guidance to staff and management on multiple administrative management matters, including human resources matters. This included communicating, advising, and executing administrative management policies and procedures for the operation of an organization. Served as an administrative officer, providing a limited range of administrative functions and advice and guidance to staff and management on multiple administrative management matters. This included communicating, advising, and executing administrative management policies and procedures for the operation of an organization. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Communicated complex and specialized issues in writing. Prepared clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products conforming to basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation and reflecting organizational policies, procedures, and practices including the following: 1) Informal correspondence such as memos and formal correspondence such as letters in final format; 2) Evaluative reports; 3)Training materials and manuals; 4) Administrative reference guides; 5) Ad hoc reports; 6) Administrative policies and practices; 7) Performance plans, individual development plans, and appraisals; 8) Statements of work, and 9) Position descriptions. Answer to this question is required Routinely and independently drafted and edited ALL OF THE ABOVE written products ensuring they met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. Assisted in drafting and editing ALL OF THE ABOVE written products for final review by a manager, ensuring all documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. Independently drafted or assisted in drafting and editing Six (6) or Seven (7) of the above written products for final review by a manager, ensuring all documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).