Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of this position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with installing, servicing, and repairing locks, keys, safes and vaults for commercial or public buildings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have fabricated and assembled a full variety of locking systems. I have installed, serviced, and repaired locks for commercial or public buildings. I have no prior experience or education in this area. I have opened safes and vaults when combinations are lost or locking mechanisms have jammed. I have created keys by hand for cylinders when keys are absent or lost. 3 Which of the following types of locking systems do you have experience in installing and servicing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Schlage. Yale. Medeco. None of the above. 4 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with re-keying a commercial or public building? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have re-keyed buildings based on the plans provided. I have developed hierarchical keying tiers of individual, sub-master, and grand master keys and locks to achieve specific security objectives. I have planned, laid out, set up, and carried out all re-keying operations including assembly and installing locks. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience confirming and accounting for a wide variety of building master key systems? Answer to this question is required I have cut keys for authorized requesters and ensured that keys are provided to only properly authorized personnel. I have coded and pinned new keys and cylinders to conform closely to existing systems to preclude duplication of existing keys. I have inputted key data into a large key and lock database both in a computerized and manual format which contain the key issuance records and lock installation records. None of the above. 6 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with safeguarding high security lock cylinder and key sets? Answer to this question is required I have safeguarded high security key blanks by utilizing key control logs and maintaining them under lock and vault. I have ensured that the integrity of high security key and cylinders were maintained during all phases of construction and acceptance. I have utilized a key control log susceptible to manufacturers factory inspection of all cut, mis-cut, destroyed, and available key blanks. None of the above. 7 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with creating keys by hand for cylinders when keys are absent or lost? Answer to this question is required I have re-created keys using specialized locksmith tools to accomplish this particular task. I have assisted a senior locksmith with accomplishing this particular task. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your ability to effectively manage deadlines and schedules to provide production support services? Answer to this question is required I have worked on individual projects and assignments that are of high priority to the organization. My assignments are generally completed with assigned deadlines and milestones. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In addition to managing multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf, as well as that of my work group. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with providing technical assistance to alarm technicians engaged in the installation of electronic locking mechanisms? Answer to this question is required I have assisted alarm technicians with the installation of electronic locking mechanisms. I have planned, laid out, and installed electronic locking mechanisms with little supervision from an alarm technician. I have planned, laid out, and installed electronic locking mechanisms based on design criteria with no assistance from an alarm technician. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your highest level of trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/technical college/trade school. Apprenticeship program. Journeyman level. On-the-job training. Master locksmith. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience using measuring/layout instruments? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge and/or experience using measuring/layout instruments. I have performed tasks that required me to use measuring/layout instruments on a daily basis as a regular part of my job. I have led and/or trained others on how to use measuring/layout instruments. I have assisted others in performing tasks that require me to use measuring/layout instruments on an as-needed basis. 12 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have minimal knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have extensive knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have intermediate knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. Grade: 08 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of this position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with installing, servicing, and repairing locks, keys, safes and vaults for commercial or public buildings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have fabricated and assembled a full variety of locking systems. I have installed, serviced, and repaired locks for commercial or public buildings. I have no prior experience or education in this area. I have opened safes and vaults when combinations are lost or locking mechanisms have jammed. I have created keys by hand for cylinders when keys are absent or lost. 3 Which of the following types of locking systems do you have experience in installing and servicing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Schlage. Yale. Medeco. None of the above. 4 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with re-keying a commercial or public building? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have re-keyed buildings based on the plans provided. I have developed hierarchical keying tiers of individual, sub-master, and grand master keys and locks to achieve specific security objectives. I have planned, laid out, set up, and carried out all re-keying operations including assembly and installing locks. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience confirming and accounting for a wide variety of building master key systems? Answer to this question is required I have cut keys for authorized requesters and ensured that keys are provided to only properly authorized personnel. I have coded and pinned new keys and cylinders to conform closely to existing systems to preclude duplication of existing keys. I have inputted key data into a large key and lock database both in a computerized and manual format which contain the key issuance records and lock installation records. None of the above. 6 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with safeguarding high security lock cylinder and key sets? Answer to this question is required I have safeguarded high security key blanks by utilizing key control logs and maintaining them under lock and vault. I have ensured that the integrity of high security key and cylinders were maintained during all phases of construction and acceptance. I have utilized a key control log susceptible to manufacturers factory inspection of all cut, mis-cut, destroyed, and available key blanks. None of the above. 7 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with practicing applicable high security measures in effect for high-security key cutting machines? Answer to this question is required I have ensured that the high security key cutting machinery is not operated by unauthorized personnel. I developed contractual agreements with high-security key cutting machine manufacturers to put in place applicable high security measures in order to utilize that machinery. None of the above. 8 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with creating keys by hand for cylinders when keys are absent or lost? Answer to this question is required I have re-created keys using specialized locksmith tools to accomplish this particular task. I have assisted a senior locksmith with accomplishing this particular task. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your ability to effectively manage deadlines and schedules to provide production support services? Answer to this question is required I have worked on individual projects and assignments that are of high priority to the organization. My assignments are generally completed with assigned deadlines and milestones. I manage multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In addition to managing multiple tasks/assignments within a common time period I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf, as well as that of my work group. None of the above. 10 Which of the following general locksmith tasks describe your experience with planning and recommending re-keying of a major facility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed facility past key and lock history, considered planned objectives, and utilized knowledge of that particular keying need. I have developed re-keying cost figures and timetable for implementation. I have developed the hierarchical keying tiers of individual, sub-master, and grand master keys and locks to achieve specific security objectives. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience with providing technical assistance to alarm technicians engaged in the installation of electronic locking mechanisms? Answer to this question is required I have assisted alarm technicians with the installation of electronic locking mechanisms. I have planned, laid out, and installed electronic locking mechanisms with little supervision from an alarm technician. I have planned, laid out, and installed electronic locking mechanisms based on design criteria with no assistance from an alarm technician. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your highest level of trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/technical college/trade school. Apprenticeship program. Journeyman level. On-the-job training. Master locksmith. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience using measuring/layout instruments? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge and/or experience using measuring/layout instruments. I have performed tasks that required me to use measuring/layout instruments on a daily basis as a regular part of my job. I have led and/or trained others on how to use measuring/layout instruments. I have assisted others in performing tasks that require me to use measuring/layout instruments on an as-needed basis. 14 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have minimal knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have extensive knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have intermediate knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.