Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. A master's degree in social work in a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. 2 In addition to minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must possess a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), License Independent Clinical Social Worker (LICSW), or equivalent unrestricted, independent, clinical license. Do you meet the selective factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess a license as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker, or equivalent. No, I do not possess the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit their license for Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW), License Independent Clinical Social Worker (LICSW), or equivalent unrestricted, independent, clinical license. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Social Worker must have the ability to collect information from a variety of sources, organize the information, identify problems and recommend action.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in a clinical setting treating either psychiatric disorders or medical patients; and/or I have conducted social assessments; and/or I have presented a written evaluation of documented information in a patient’s medical record; and/or I have implemented a database of all cases referred for services to provide technical and research information; and/or I have gathered and organized data assisting in the development of a quality management program. I am knowledgeable of various problem-solving strategies; and/or I have knowledgeable in research methods; and/or I have collected data from a client population. I have assisted in compiling data from written/oral assessments; and/or I have maintained information on clients/patients; and/or I have organized records and updated database files. None of the above. 5 The Social Worker is a team member who must be able to effectively communicate and coordinate information with the outside agencies, administration, physicians, inmates and co-workers.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I am knowledgeable of the concept of interdisciplinary teams; and/or I have provided/shared information with other departments in institution; and/or I have participated in department level meetings. I have ensured lines of communication were kept open with individuals both internal/external to the Agency; and/or I have attended interdisciplinary team meetings; and/or I have provided information to other organizations within the agency. I have participated in interdisciplinary teams which include, but not limited to, psychologist, psychiatrist, nurse and rehabilitative staff; and/or I have advised or provided helpful input to other disciplines; and/or I have collaborated with multiple outside agencies; and/or I have led meetings at the headquarters level. None of the above. 6 The Social Worker must have current knowledge of the principles, philosophies, and professional values related to the field of social work and how they relate to a correctional environment.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the completion of social work assessments; and/or I have observed treatment teams; and/or I have studied various types of clinical interventions; and/or I have reviewed treatment plans. I have performed assessments or evaluations; and/or I have worked under the supervision of a clinical professional as a social work practitioner; and/or I have assisted in making a treatment plan. I have followed social work standards of professional practice when administering medical/psychiatric treatment utilizing Title 18 statutes governing commitment; and/or I have followed professional standards evaluating the treatment and release of mental health patients; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to supervise and maintain the quality of inmate/patient care standards as outlined by policy and/or other regulatory agencies; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of medical and mental health diagnoses and the ability to formulate a treatment plan. None of the above. 7 The Social Worker must have the ability to work with inmates in a therapeutic environment.&nbsp;This includes direct contact with inmates and their families often for purposes of conducting therapy sessions.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented or facilitated a group therapy treatment program; and/or I have offered specialized professional counseling to groups of various ethnic and demographic backgrounds; and/or I have enhanced an existing program to achieve treatment goals. I have assisted in therapeutic group facilitation; and/or I have worked with individuals in a therapeutic capacity; and/or I have involved in utilizing educational lesson plans. I have assisted others in leading individual or group counseling sessions; and/or I have assisted in counseling to groups of various ethnic and demographic backgrounds; and/or I have involved in the development of educational lesson plans. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).