Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have a valid driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have a master’s or equivalent graduate degree. I have two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a graduate degree. I have a related LL.B. or J.D. degree. I have none of the above. Specialized experience is defined as the following: (1) Performing analytical work to manage, regulate, and control the level and flow of materials, supplies, and equipment through acquisition, storage, and inventory management. (2) Resolving conventional inventory management problems, questions, and situations in a supply operation. (3) Monitoring established supply systems and programs. (4) Performing independent reviews and making recommendations involving well-established acquisition criteria, methods, techniques, and procedures. 3 Have you assisted system users by developing job aids or procedures to summarize inventory/supply request processes? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Describe your experience. Include the organization where you gained the experience, your position title, duties performed, and the length of time spent performing the duties. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 Which of the following type(s) of individuals have you provided customer service for? Answer to this question is required Vendors/Contractors Ordering Managers Trade/Construction shop managers Inventory Management Specialists Purchasing Agents None of the above 5 Which tasks have you performed to maintain stock of supplies or equipment? Answer to this question is required Verified low inventory levels Competed bids to multiple vendors Requested authorization to replenish inventory Transmitted a purchase order to vendors Developed supply plans Processed purchase orders Solicit bid proposals Determined ordering lead time Evaluated available storage/staging space Transferred supplies between cost centers/programs Reviewed requisitions None of the above 6 Have you disposed of damaged or retired property? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you determined when to use competition to procure supplies? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Which tasks have you performed with an Inventory Supply Database? Answer to this question is required Maintained inventory control records Analyzed supply requirements Determine supply stock levels Summarized supply requirement Estimated frequency of supply orders Monitored usage transactions Tracked timing of reorders Developed reports to monitor delivery of goods None of the above 9 Which computer applications have you operated to maintain an inventory? Answer to this question is required Inventory management systems Work request management systems Facility management systems Financial management systems Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access Microsoft Power Point None of the above 10 Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience ensuring the accuracy of supply inventories: Answer to this question is required I have not ensured the accuracy of supply inventories or supply orders. I have matched inventory records to physical inventory to check accuracy. I have identified inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. I have resolved inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. 11 Which tasks have you performed to check the accuracy of supply orders? Answer to this question is required Checked orders against order history Confirmed order amounts with individual placing the order Checked order amounts against projected supply Physically checked inventory to confirm need for supplies None of the above 12 Which of the following tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Gathered data and provided information reports to management. Reviewed and analyzed data and provided findings to management. Followed established procedures and implemented results within compressed time lines. Analyzed planned or scheduled material requirements and forecasts to determine the category and quantity of items requested and provided funding information. Coordinated and planned tasks with peers. Coordinated and planned activities within internal organizations. None of the above. 13 When faced with tight deadlines, changing priorities, and conflicting responsibilities, which of the following best describes your work style? Answer to this question is required I strive for the challenge. I am at my best when working under pressure. I adapt well to changing needs. I re-prioritize workloads and coordinate with others to get the work done. I work best in a structured environment; however, I usually adapt well to emergency situations. I do not adapt well to conflicting situations and priorities. I like to know what is expected of me at all times. I have not had experience working in an office with this type of requirement. 14 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interacting with others in a group setting. Answer to this question is required I have attended workgroups, committees, or team meetings but have not actively contributed to discussions. I have collaborated with workgroups, committees, or team members to solve problems. I have led or chaired a workgroup, committee, or team and guided collaboration efforts. None of the above. 15 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience engaging customers. Answer to this question is required I have listened to customer needs and recommended solutions without compromising quality or agency/company objectives. I have educated customers on how the services of my agency/company would effectively meet their needs. I have actively solicited and responded to customer feedback. I have developed and implemented an action plan to improve a program, process, or procedure in response to customer feedback. None of the above. 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.