Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Do you possess a valid, current State-issued Class B commercial driver&rsquo;s license with Passenger (P) endorsement to operate a commercial vehicle? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Ability to operate motor vehicles.** Operated gasoline, diesel or electric powered, wheeled vehicles to haul, transport, or tow cargo, passengers, and/or equipment. Answer to this question is required Operated three (3) of the following motor vehicles with approximate gross weights of more than 26,000 pounds: semi-tractor trailer truck, box truck, ambulances or buses regardless of gross vehicle weight. Performed operator maintenance on all vehicles operated. Operated two of the following motor vehicles with approximate gross weights of more than 26,000 pounds: semi-tractor trailer truck, ambulances, or buses regardless of gross weight. Performed operator maintenance on all vehicles operated. Operated one or more of the following motor vehicles with approximate gross weight of more than 26,000 pounds: semi-tractor trailer truck, box truck, ambulances or buses regardless of gross weight. Performed operator maintenance on all vehicles operated. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to apply safety regulations, interpret instructions and follow directions.** Interpreted instructions, specifications and applicable safety regulations pertaining to the operation of motor vehicles and the safe and timely delivery and pick up of cargo and passengers Answer to this question is required Followed directions using GPS systems or phone applications. Independently interpreted instructions, specifications and applicable safety regulations pertaining to laws and regulations related to operating motor vehicles and the safe and timely delivery and pick up of cargo AND passengers according to delivery schedules. Drivers’ license has never been suspended or revoked due to one or more moving violations. Trained or assisted others in following instructions and safety regulations related to delivering and picking up cargo and/or passengers. Followed directions using GPS systems or phone applications. Interpreted instructions, specifications and applicable safety regulations pertaining to laws and regulations related to operating motor vehicles and the safe and timely delivery and pick up of cargo AND passengers. Drivers’ license has never been suspended or revoked due to one or more moving violations. Trained or assisted others in following instructions and safety regulations related to delivering and picking up cargo and/or passengers. Followed directions using GPS systems or phone applications. Interpreted instructions, specifications and applicable safety regulations pertaining to laws and regulations related to operating motor vehicles and the safe and timely delivery and pick up of cargo OR passengers. Drivers’ license has never been suspended or revoked due to one or more moving violations. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to perform standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities.** Followed the proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities which include: 1) completing pre-trip inspections, 2) recording and maintaining preventive maintenance records, 3) documenting day-to-day trip logs, and 4) completing accident reports as required. Answer to this question is required Maintained and operated various motor vehicles following proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities by performing ALL of the above. Oversaw and participated in loading and unloading cargo, ensuring it was performed properly and safely. Determined best loading practices to achieve load balance and protection for fragile items. Maintained and operated motor vehicles following proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities by performing THREE (3) of the above. Loaded and unloaded cargo properly and safely. Maintained and operated motor vehicles following proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities by performing TWO of the above. Assisted in loading and unloading cargo properly and safely. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work while following guidelines. This included the ability to set priorities, determine long term vs. short term priorities, negotiate deadlines and competing priorities, and complete assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently and efficiently executed multiple, complex work assignments, identifying work objectives and determining project approaches, specific project steps, input required, schedules, milestones, deadlines, responsibility areas, and resources required. For example, developed and implemented travel plans involving multiple persons and destinations with time-sensitive goals, exercised task management skills to complete competing assignments, and used discernment and judgement to refocus plans when conflicts arose. Independently and efficiently executed work assignments, including identifying work objectives and determining project approaches, specific project steps, input required, milestones, deadlines, and responsibility areas. For example, implemented given travel plans involving multiple persons and destinations with time-sensitive goals, exercised task management skills to complete competing assignments, and used discernment and judgement to refocus plans when conflicts arose Efficiently executed work assignments, including implementing travel plans involving multiple persons and destinations with time-sensitive goals, using task management skills to complete competing assignments, and deferred to supervisors to refocus plans when conflicts arose None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).