Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with unit digitization plans? Answer to this question is required I have played a leadership role in developing and implementing a unit digitization plans at my organization. I have participated the development and implementation of a unit digitization plan at my organization. I have provided data to the planning group to help inform the development of the unit digitization plan at my organization. I have no experience in developing or implementing a unit digitization plan. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience collaborating with others or working on teams to accomplish work projects? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a central or major part of my work. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish work projects on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in collaborating with others or team building to accomplish work projects. 4 Which of the following best describes the sources you have used to collect and report on digitization metrics and activities on a regular and recurring basis? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have utilized all three of the following sources to collect and report on digitization metrics and activities on a regular and recurring basis: Smithsonian Collections and Digitization Reporting System (CDRS), Unit Digitization Plans, and Unit Data Management Plans. I have utilized all three of the following sources to collect and report on digitization metrics and activities on a regular and recurring basis: Smithsonian Collections and Digitization Reporting System (CDRS) including managing the system, Unit Digitization Plans, and Unit Data Management Plans. I have utilized two of the following sources to collect and report on digitization metrics and activities on a regular and recurring basis: Smithsonian Collections and Digitization Reporting System (CDRS), Unit Digitization Plans, or Unit Data Management Plans. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, requirements of the assignments, and capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified the developmental and training needs of employees. I have ensured that staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following describe your previous supervisory experience? Answer to this question is required I have provided clear, consistent goals and guidelines to those under my supervision, and provided regular feedback regarding performance, including taking disciplinary action when required. Coordinated schedules and continuing education requirements for supervised employees. I have provided goals and guidelines for those under my supervision, and provided regular feedback regarding performance. Coordinated schedules for supervised employees. I have coordinated schedules for supervised employees. I have no previous supervisory experience. 7 Which statement best describes your experience overseeing training and training of museum staff, contractors, interns, and/or volunteer photographers and other digital imaging specialists? Answer to this question is required I have experience overseeing training and training of museum staff, contractors, interns, and/or volunteer photographers and other digital imaging specialists. I have experience training of museum staff, contractors, interns, and/or volunteer photographers and other digital imaging specialists. I have experience training photographers and/or digital imaging specialists. I have no experience training photographers or digital imaging specialists. 8 Which of the following digital asset formats, standards, and production strategies do you have experience working with on the job. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Working with multiple digital image formats (such as RAW, TIFF, JPG). Assessing digital photography needs (such as equipment, lighting, resolution, framing) to achieve desired products. Assessing digital photography workflow (such as shot lists, post-processing, cataloguing, bulk metadata) to optimize production and achieve desired products. Industry guidelines and best practices (such as Federal Agencies Digital Guidelines Initiative) Photo editing techniques such as resizing, cropping, making minor corrections. I have no experience with the above formats, standards, or production strategies. 9 Which statement best describes your experience with digital imaging technology in museums including defining system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process? Answer to this question is required I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums and have defined system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives; conducted assessments of current and emerging equipment and software, and established controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums and familiarity with defining system requirements, equipment, supplies, hardware, and software needed to support museum photography initiatives and objectives; conducting assessments of current and emerging equipment and software, and establishing controls for ensuring the integrity of the digital imaging process. I have experience with digital imaging technology in museums. I have no experience with digital imaging technology in museums. 10 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to coordinate photography assignments and communicate effectively with multiple departments to arrange and photograph museum objects? Answer to this question is required I have experience coordinating photography assignments in a professional photo studio or photographic services in a museum or archives. I have assisted in coordinating photography assignments in a museum or archives. I have experience working in a photo studio or photographic services in a museum or archives. I have no experience coordinating photography assignments. 11 Which statement best describes your experience working in a museum photography and digital imaging studio? Answer to this question is required I have overseen the daily operations of a museum photography and digital imaging studio including monitoring the photography and other digital imaging of other staff and/or contractors, assisting with the planning and management of the work to meet project schedules, helping to develop budgets for equipment, supplies, and contract services; and drafting user guides, standards, guidelines, and workflows for museum photography and other digital imaging. I have assisted with the daily operations of a museum photography and digital imaging studio. I have worked in a museum photography and digital imaging studio. I have not worked in a museum photography and digital imaging studio. 12 Which of the following describes your experience working with digital media? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have searched collections information systems to determine if digital media exists. I have linked and unlinked media records to/from collections information systems object records. I have identified where media does not match an object description in the collections information system and taken steps to resolve the problem. I have determined why media does not display properly in the collections information system and taken steps to resolve the problem. I have assessed digital media to ensure that files meet established museum standards, including image quality, file format, resolution, and metadata. I have entered embedded metadata into digital media files. I have researched intellectual property agreements, copyrights, and/or restrictions. I have uploaded digital media to an enterprise digital asset management system. I have applied established museum standards for digital preservation to digital media. I have knowledge of digital media standards and practices, but no experience processing digital media. I do not have knowledge of or experience with processing digital media. 13 Which statement best describes your experience ensuring that the rights of holders of copyright to art objects are conveyed to potential users? Answer to this question is required I have supervised rights and reproduction issues in an art museum with a collection of modern and contemporary art, including working with the copyright of works by living artists, and supervising staff members(s) who handle the day-to-day image use and copyright issues related to collection objects. I have worked with rights and reproduction issues in an art museum related to use and copyright of objects in the permanent collection. I have worked with rights and reproduction issues relating to the use of art objects. I have not worked with rights and reproduction issues relating to the use of art objects 14 Which of the following answers best reflects your knowledge about museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have taken undergraduate or graduate courses about museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures. In current or previous positions, I have applied my knowledge of museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures to complete basic tasks. In current or previous positions, I have applied my knowledge of museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures to complete difficult and complex assignments independently. In current or previous positions, I have applied my knowledge of museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures to complete difficult and complex assignments independently, and I have the ability to teach others about museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures. In current or previous positions, I have applied my knowledge of museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures in previous positions to complete difficult and complex assignments independently, and I have taught others about museum collection information and digital asset management practices and procedures. None of the above. 15 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with rights and reproductions policies as they pertain to works of art in a public collection or art museum? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed the rights and reproductions function for works of art in a public collection or art museum. I have work experience with applying policies of fair use and public domain as they pertain to works of art. I have work experience researching copyright and/or personality rights for works of art in a public collection or art museum. I have work experience in locating and communicating with rights holders and in the negotiation of image license and usage agreements. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.