Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency.&nbsp; Leadership Experience: Experience in leading and coordinating projects, including reviewing work product and providing guidance and feedback to team members. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency.&nbsp; Technical Experience 1: Experience researching and analyzing financial institution risk, including analyzing bank balance sheets, activities by nonbank financial companies, and systemic implications of bank and nonbank activities. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 2: Experience researching, analyzing, and producing studies/papers/presentations about large bank resolution and deposit insurance issues. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 3: Experience researching and analyzing issues related to financial market plumbing (e.g., Treasury markets, and clearing and settlement systems). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 4: Experience publishing papers that analyze bank regulatory and resolution topics in academic journals and presenting at conferences, symposia, and other public venues about bank regulation, financial stability, financial markets, deposit insurance issues, financial crises, large bank failures, and large bank resolution.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Overview of the Accomplishment Statement Questions (ASQs): Narrative responses are required for the following accomplishment statement questions (ASQs). Please provide a narrative response of up to 500 words (approximately 3,000 characters) for each ASQ. Applicants who fail to do so will limit their ability to receive maximum consideration. The ASQ narratives must be submitted through the applicant portal; Separate attachments with ASQ narratives will not be accepted. Applicants who copy and paste the same narratives for each ASQ, submit "see resume" or &ldquo;see attachment&rdquo; as a response, or submit narratives that exceed the stated word/character limits, will limit their ability to receive maximum consideration. Current or former FDIC EM and CX employees are required to provide narrative responses to the ASQs. Each accomplishment narrative should be clear and concise, and emphasize your level of responsibility, scope and complexity of programs managed, program accomplishments, policy initiatives undertaken, and the results of your actions. Focus on accomplishments. The ASQs will be evaluated and verified by a panel of job experts against pre-established scoring criteria. The FDIC senior leadership, or designee(s), will conduct a final executive interview to confirm organizational fit and commitment to American ideals. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualification or dismissal from employment following acceptance.&nbsp; 6 Describe your experience researching, analyzing, and writing about bank regulation, financial stability, financial markets, deposit insurance issues, financial crises, large bank failures, and large bank resolution. (e.g., the 2007-2008 financial crises, the 2023 bank failures, other historical banking crisis, and the public sector responses and crisis tools.) Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Describe your experience presenting at conferences, symposia, and other public venues about bank regulation, financial stability, financial markets, deposit insurance issues, financial crises, large bank failures, and large bank resolution.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Describe your experience presenting highly technical information regarding bank regulation and/or resolution activities to a variety of different audiences through both written and verbal channels.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Describe your experience establishing, building, maintaining and leveraging relationships in the financial sector, to include private industry, other federal regulatory agencies, or financial organizations.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3000 characters. Answer to this question is required Overview of the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)).&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Please provide a response of up to 1300 characters (approximately 200 words) for each question.&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The FDIC prohibits consideration of characteristics unrelated to the job. Do not include information related to Race, Ethnicity, Sex, Religion, Disability, Height &amp; Weight, Sex, Marital/Familial status (e.g., marital, parental, pregnancy) or Political Affiliation in your written responses. 10 Short Essay Question 1: How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 11 Short Essay Question 2: In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?&nbsp; Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 12 Short Essay Question 3: How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?&nbsp; Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words) to each question.&lt;/strong&gt; 13 Short Essay Question 4: How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?&nbsp; Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 14 Certification for the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Yes No 15 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).