Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: &nbsp;Applicant must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the Disctrict of Columbia Applicants must submit a copy of their license at the time you apply.&nbsp; The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND have uploaded my documentation. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, administer and interpret psychological/neuropsychological tests, and integrate all available information to diagnose and treat mental health disorders, including substance use disorders.&nbsp; He/she also must consult with staff regarding the management of incarcerated individuals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; scored psychological tests and wrote result summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have observed a licensed psychologist conduct psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, tests of intelligence, vocational assessments, or neurological screening tests; and/or I have scored assessments in accordance with testing protocols; and/or I have observed a licensed psychologist conduct a research project that included assessments. I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology, or vocational assessment; and/or I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 7 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for substance use disorders, as well as schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders, bipolar and related disorders, depressive disorders, anxiety disorders, trauma-related disorders, and personality disorders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, made treatment recommendations for patients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, conducted therapy using at least two different treatment interventions such as: cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy, Eye Movement Desensitization Reprocessing, or biofeedback; and/or I have, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have, while preparing for licensure, discussed potential treatment recommendations based upon knowledge of treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive/behavior interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, or relaxation training; observed client vignettes and made recommendations regarding appropriate treatment; and/or I have studied the efficacy of various treatment modalities for a specific clinical diagnosis. I have assisted in the treatment of patients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews, or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have assisted with a research project that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. None of the above. 8 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must have knowledge of substance use disorders, schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders, bipolar and related disorders, depressive disorders, anxiety disorders, trauma-related disorders, and personality disorders to understand the behavior of individuals and provide appropriate interventions.&nbsp; One of his/her major duties is counseling incarcerated individuals individually and group setting.&nbsp; He/she must have a working knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality, substance use and mental health disorders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. I have, with direction, conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral interventions, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychoanalysis, psychoeducation, or biofeedback; and/or I have assisted with research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group with supervision. I have assisted in providing individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral management, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psycho-educational training, biofeedback; and/or I have co-facilitated a group therapy session; and/or I have observed licensed psychologists as they conducted individual or group therapy. None of the above. 9 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reacted appropriately to a medical emergency; and/or I have calmed someone who was upset; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation; and/or I have assisted others during a crisis situation. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal patients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 10 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator is responsible for coordinating and directing the Drug Abuse Program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a practicum in a specialty area of psychology; and/or I have conducted a research project in a specialty area in psychology; and/or I have worked in a setting that treated mentally ill, impulsive/aggressive, or developmentally delayed individuals. I have served as a coordinator of a substance use treatment program developing programming, diagnosing psychological problems, presenting treatment recommendations, providing therapy, and administrative tasks related to drug treatment programs; and/or I have practiced in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have worked as a treatment therapist in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have supervised graduate students as they performed substance use assessments; and/or I have worked as a treatment specialist with incarcerated individuals; and/or I have assisted with research on a specialty treatment program. I have used a standardized interview to make a provisional mental health diagnosis; and/or I have formally evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness of admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have developed appropriate treatment plans for individuals assessed from a psycho-social interview. None of the above. 11 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed improved operational procedures for office; and/or I have assisted in developing and presenting specialized training; and/or I have represented work unit at department head meeting; and/or I have organized audit/operational review assignments and paperwork. I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates with on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: &nbsp;Applicant must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the Disctrict of Columbia Applicants must submit a copy of their license at the time you apply.&nbsp; The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND have uploaded my documentation. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, administer and interpret psychological/neuropsychological tests, and integrate all available information to diagnose and treat mental health disorders, including substance use disorders.&nbsp; He/she also must consult with staff regarding the management of incarcerated individuals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, assessment of intelligence, or vocational assessment; and/or I have scored psychological tests and written result summaries; and/or I have assisted with a research project by administering and scoring psychological assessments. I have conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: neurological screening tests, personality inventories like the MMPI, intelligence tests like the WAIS, suicide risk assessments, or the Strong-Campbell Vocational Interest Inventory; and/or I have written psychological reports which included assessment results; and/or I have conducted research that included psychological assessments as part of the study; and/or I have provided clinical supervision of treatment staff who conducted psychological assessments. I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, conducted at least two different types of psychological assessments such as: objective personality measures, projective personality measures, neurological screening/assessment instruments, diagnostic checklist, intelligence assessment, assessment of psychopathology, or vocational assessment; and/or I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, participated in a research project that included assessments; and/or I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 7 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about treatment interventions for substance use disorders, as well as schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders, bipolar and related disorders, depressive disorders, anxiety disorders, trauma-related disorders, and personality disorders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, while under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, made treatment recommendations for patients based upon a knowledge of two different treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, conducted therapy using at least two different treatment interventions such as: cognitive-behavioral intervention, reality therapy, Eye Movement Desensitization Reprocessing, or biofeedback; and/or I have, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, participated in research that involved the recommendation of treatment interventions. I have assisted in the treatment of patients by recommending treatment interventions such as: behavioral techniques, cognitive interventions, family systems, group counseling, biofeedback, impulse control, or relaxation; and/or I have made recommendations for treatment based on a review of case files, observing clinical interviews, or reviewing audio or video tapes of clinical interviews; and/or I have assisted with a research project that involved the recommending of treatment interventions. I have treated patients using various treatment techniques such as: cognitive-behavioral interventions, biofeedback, suicide prevention, reality therapy, relaxation techniques, problem-solving, anger management, or group counseling; and/or I have conducted research on the effectiveness of treatment interventions; and/or I have identified and referred patients who could benefit from treatment involving psychotropic medications or neurological interventions. None of the above. 8 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator must have knowledge of substance use disorders, schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders, bipolar and related disorders, depressive disorders, anxiety disorders, trauma-related disorders, and personality disorders to understand the behavior of individuals and provide appropriate interventions.&nbsp; One of his/her major duties is counseling incarcerated individuals individually and group setting.&nbsp; He/she must have a working knowledge of cognitive functioning as it relates to personality, substance use and mental health disorders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided individual and group psychotherapy, based on a through case conceptualization of each participant, with the goal of meeting specific patient needs using a variety of treatment techniques such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, biofeedback, or psycho-educational; and/or I have developed patient specific treatment plans with measurable treatment goals; and/or I have conducted research that included the evaluation of treatment effectiveness as part of the study. I have with direction, conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral interventions, cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychoanalysis, psychoeducation, or biofeedback; and/or I have assisted with research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group with supervision. I have conducted individual or group psychotherapy using a treatment technique such as: behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, psychoanalytic, psycho-educational, or biofeedback; and/or I have participated in research which included a treatment modality; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychotherapy group. None of the above. 9 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to a medical emergency; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal patients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. None of the above. 10 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator is responsible for coordinating and directing the Drug Abuse Program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a practicum in a specialty area of psychology; and/or I have conducted a research project in a specialty area in psychology; and/or I have worked in a setting that treated mentally ill, impulsive/aggressive, or developmentally delayed individuals. I have served as a coordinator of a substance use treatment program developing programming, diagnosing psychological problems, presenting treatment recommendations, providing therapy, and administrative tasks related to drug treatment programs; and/or I have practiced in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have worked as a treatment therapist in a substance use treatment program; and/or I have supervised graduate students as they performed substance use assessments; and/or I have worked as a treatment specialist with incarcerated individuals; and/or I have assisted with research on a specialty treatment program. I have supervised one or more subordinate treatment specialists; and/or I have taught courses or provided training in the area of substance use and related disorders and treatments; and/or I have used specialized psychodiagnostics assessment techniques to evaluate substance use problems; and/or I have exhibited leadership skills by establishing and meeting unit/agency objectives; and/or I have created a new specialty treatment program; and/or I have served on a work group to develop curricula or training material for a specialty treatment program; and/or I have conducted research on the effectiveness of a specialty treatment program. None of the above. 11 The Drug Abuse Program Coordinator supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates with on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).