Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration and examination requirements, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, educational transcript requirements, and evidence of passing the National Council Licensure Examination. The educational transcript, license and examination documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration and examination documentation for verification at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Dialysis Nurse must have a knowledge of hemodialysis nursing care principles, practices, procedures, and be able to apply this knowledge to daily patient care.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided routine comprehensive treatment during the Hemodialysis process; and/or I have safely disconnected from the blood lines, controlled bleeding, applied dressings and provided post treatment observations; and/or I have properly cleaned machinery and performed equipment maintenance; and/or I have managed nasal-pharyngeal and gastric suction as well as a variety of other drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors’ orders; and/or I have guided the work of assistants, LPN’s and student nurses; and/or I have provided holistic approach to patient care; and/or I have evaluated patient response to nursing care and intervention; and/or I have conducted patient education in regards to hemodialysis treatment, lab values, dietary issues, and preventive health measures. I have provided patient teaching in regards to dialysis and/or rehabilitative care; and/or I have performed less complex dressing changes; and/or I have monitored respiration; and/or I have documented pertinent observations and assessments on the nursing notes in the patient record. I have provided appropriate PICC line (intravenous Catheter) or central line care; and/or I have administered and monitored IV fluids; and/or I have monitored oxygen levels; and/or I have administered blood transfusions; and/or I have provided and updated immunizations; and/or I have performed complex dressing changes; and/or I have Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived tests; and/or I have inserted foley catheters; and/or I have provided wound care. None of the above. 5 The Dialysis Nurse must have knowledge of safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment, understanding isolation procedures, universal precautions.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case, alerted staff, and ensured that appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures and precautions; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have participated in fire and disaster drills in accordance to safety department policy. I have completed dressing changes on an HIV or immun-compromised patients; and/or I have administered intravenous medication to a patient with blood borne pathogens; and/or I have trained nursing assistants, LPNs and RNs on the protocol for blood spills, the dangers, and the proper procedures utilized for cleanup; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on an extensive basis; and/or I have recommended safety practices on prevention of needle sticks and contamination that were adopted; and/or I have monitored patient outcomes in regards to infectious disease management; and/or I have applied safety principles to patient care environment; and/or I have supervised subordinates on the nursing unit during fire and disaster drills. I have practiced Universal Precautions; and/or I have provided treatment in a hospital setting to patients with blood borne or airborne diseases requiring extensive personal protective equipment; and/or I have guided nursing assistants or LPNs in the application of infection control procedures. None of the above. 6 The Dialysis Nurse must have the ability to assess patients&rsquo; needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan in a hospital or clinical setting.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met the needs of patients with chronic conditions requiring specific medical care and /or treatment; and/or I have observed patient’s conditions; and/or I have provided nursing care as outlined in the patient care plan and physician’s orders; and/or I have obtained appropriate laboratory specimens. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (i.e., cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have reported changes with patient status based upon professional observations and assessments. I have developed, planned, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and subacute beds for patients with multi-system organ failures (i.e., end stage liver disease, respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure); and/or I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management; and/or I have developed individualized patient care plans based upon assessments, policies, guidelines, and standards of practice. None of the above. 7 The Dialysis Nurse must be able to communicate orally.&nbsp;He/she conducts meetings and training sessions and inform others of patient care.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given presentations at nursing conferences; and/or I have taught college course in nursing; and/or I have taught basic life support in the community; and/or I have served as a facilitator at a public meeting/forum; and/or I have mentored and taught nursing staff regarding daily duties; and/or I have communicated and taught patients pertaining to individual medical needs; and/or I have reported medical or correctional issues to supervisors and/or management for proper action.. I have assigned routine daily assignments to dialysis staff and or inmates; and/or I have successfully directed/explained and/or assisted staff in the performance of job functions; and/or I have conveyed verbal emotional support to patients and/or families prior to the beginning of treatment; and/or I have provided patient educational sessions. I have provided a patient update on the shift report to nurses or doctors for the continued and appropriate care of the patient; and/or I have communicated with pharmacists, dietitians, physical therapists and other health care providers at multi-disciplinary treatment meetings or staff meetings; and/or I have provided instructions to the family of a patient on proper care. None of the above. 8 The Dialysis Nurse must have knowledge of rehabilitative nursing, pre- and post-operative care.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with rehabilitative patients as a float nurse to a rehabilitative or pre- or postoperative unit; and/or I have maintained proper sanitation procedures; and/or I have ensured accountability and proper needle and syringe control; and/or I have prepared patients for tests, examinations and treatment. I have exchanged information with external health care officials, public health forums, or with officials in private organizations in reference to rehabilitative nursing; and/or I have taught rehabilitative college courses to nursing students; and/or I have provided patients education and led less experienced staff in the implementation of pre and post-operative care plans. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or I have as a charge nurse or team leader, facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. None of the above. Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration and examination requirement, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, educational transcript requirements, and evidence of passing the National Council Licensure Examination. The educational transcript, license and examination documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration and examination documentation for verification at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Dialysis Nurse must have an extensive knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures and be able to apply it therapeutically to meet patient needs. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned, implemented and evaluated nursing care; and/or I have analyzed patient outcomes to determine effectiveness of interventions; and/or I have assimilated quality management data into the planning and development of nursing care; and/or I have performed nurse care surveys as prescribed by the JCAHO and initiated corrective actions; and/or I have coordinated multi-disciplinary teams to update treatment plans and completed corrective actions; and/or I have participated in multiple emergency and code 45 (resuscitation) situations; and/or I have taught nursing care principles, practices and procedures to new nurses I have provided appropriate PICC line (intravenous Catheter) or central line care; and/or I have administered and monitored IV fluids; and/or I have monitored oxygen levels; and/or I have administered blood transfusions; and/or I have provided and updated immunizations; and/or I have performed complex dressing changes; and/or I have Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived tests; and/or I have inserted foley catheters; and/or I have provided wound care. I have provided routine comprehensive treatment during the Hemodialysis process; and/or I have safely disconnected from the blood lines, controlled bleeding, applied dressings and provided post treatment observations; and/or I have properly cleaned machinery and performed equipment maintenance; and/or I have managed nasal-pharyngeal and gastric suction as well as a variety of other drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors’ orders; and/or I have guided the work of assistants, LPN’s and student nurses; and/or I have provided holistic approach to patient care; and/or I have evaluated patient response to nursing care and intervention; and/or I have conducted patient education in regards to hemodialysis treatment, lab values, dietary issues, and preventive health measures. None of the above. 5 The Dialysis Nurse must have a thorough knowledge of safety principles and infection control in the patient care environment along with an understanding of infection control procedures and universal precautions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed dressing changes on an HIV or immun-compromised patients; and/or I have administered intravenous medication to a patient with blood borne pathogens; and/or I have trained nursing assistants, LPNs and RNs on the protocol for blood spills, the dangers, and the proper procedures utilized for cleanup; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on an extensive basis; and/or I have recommended safety practices on prevention of needle sticks and contamination that were adopted; and/or I have monitored patient outcomes in regards to infectious disease management; and/or I have applied safety principles to patient care environment; and/or I have supervised subordinates on the nursing unit during fire and disaster drills. I have identified a potential TB patient or isolation case, alerted staff, and ensured that appropriate precautions for treatment were implemented; and/or I have worked with Hepatitis patients and adhered to established safety procedures and precautions; and/or I have worked with HIV patients on a limited basis and closely adhered to established safety procedures; and/or I have participated in fire and disaster drills in accordance to safety department policy. I have provided care and/or recommended while working as an infection control nurse in a hospital, clinic or community based setting or as a member of a committee specializing in infection control and disease prevention issues; and/or I have developed and provided training sessions on nosocomial infections, blood borne or airborne diseases, or provided instruction to patients on managing their infectious or chronic disease; and/or I have written procedures on nosocomial infections and disease prevention; and/or I have analyzed responses to fire and disaster drills to determine areas in need of improvement. None of the above. 6 The Dialysis Nurse must have the ability to assess patients&rsquo; needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan.&nbsp; Experience gained must be in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed patient care plans and ensured corrective actions were initiated; and/or I have completed quality review of policies and procedures for care and treatment; and/or I have conveyed treatment team goals to obtain optimal patient compliance; and/or I have recognized patient deviations from normal and provided appropriate treatment and follow-up; and/or I have incorporated concepts of preventive health into assessment of patient needs and patient education; and/or I have revised plan of care based upon assessment of patient needs. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (i.e., cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have reported changes with patient status based upon professional observations and assessments. I have developed, planned, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and subacute beds for patients with multi-system organ failures (i.e., end stage liver disease, respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure); and/or I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management; and/or I have developed individualized patient care plans based upon assessments, policies, guidelines, and standards of practice. None of the above. 7 The Dialysis Nurse must be able to express ideas and instructions to a variety of individuals with diverse backgrounds. He/she must possess verbal communication skills in order to exchange technical medical information with other medical professionals, explain procedures to inmates, and convey information concisely and effectively to others both internal and external to the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given presentations at nursing conferences; and/or I have taught college course in nursing; and/or I have taught basic life support in the community; and/or I have served as a facilitator at a public meeting/forum; and/or I have mentored and taught nursing staff regarding daily duties; and/or I have communicated and taught patients pertaining to individual medical needs; and/or I have reported medical or correctional issues to supervisors and/or management for proper action. I have used persuasive communication with hostile or confrontational individuals (inmates); and/or I have exchanged complex information at conferences with health care officials, at public forums, or with officials in private organizations; and/or I have informed supervisor of an unusual situation and provided alternatives for resolution; and/or I have briefed and directed dialysis nursing staff on patient case information. I have assigned routine daily assignments to dialysis staff and or inmates; and/or I have successfully directed/explained and/or assisted staff in the performance of job functions; and/or I have conveyed verbal emotional support to patients and/or families prior to the beginning of treatment; and/or I have provided patient educational sessions. None of the above. 8 The Dialysis Nurse must have a comprehensive knowledge of rehabilitative nursing, pre- and post-operative care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or as a charge nurse or team leader, I have facilitated instructions and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. I have exchanged information with external health care officials, public health forums, or with officials in private organizations in reference to rehabilitative nursing; and/or I have taught rehabilitative college courses to nursing students; and/or I have provided patients education and led less experienced staff in the implementation of pre and post-operative care plans. I have held position of Supervisory Clinical Nurse, Rehabilitation Nurse Specialist, Team Leader/Charge Nurse in a nursing unit (i.e. Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU) or Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU); and/or I have developed and coordinated care plans for rehabilitative, pre and post-operative patients; and/or I have directed nursing staff in implementing rehabilitative patient care plans; and/or I have directed the care delivered during medical emergencies, such as respiratory or cardiac arrest. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).