Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have experience performing the duties of a maintenance mechanic without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 Do you have experience performing the duties of a maintenance mechanic without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience installing fixtures. Answer to this question is required I assisted a more senior worker with performing the installation steps. I retrieved tools or materials for a senior worker who was installing a fixture. I completed education or training on methods to install fixtures, but I have not yet applied this knowledge at work. I do not have education, training, or experience installing fixtures. 2 I completed an apprenticeship program or hold an apprenticeship card in plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R. Answer to this question is required True False 3 I completed a vocational training program in plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Which concepts have you learned through classwork or on the job training? Answer to this question is required Refrigeration cycle Electrical circuitry Air flow principles Thermodynamics British Thermal Units (BTUs) Heating coil and cooling coil operations Low voltage power sources Power relays Valve types and purposes Direct digital control (DDC) systems Motors (e.g., single phase, three phase) None of the above 5 Have you performed maintenance work in (industrial and/or government) buildings? &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of experience interpreting technical instructions or specifications. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting technical instructions. I followed technical instructions to maintain or clean equipment. I followed technical instructions to assemble or troubleshoot equipment. I followed technical instructions to install a light fixture, faucet or thermostat. I followed technical instructions to wire a circuit or replace plumbing lines. 7 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of responsibility maintaining building systems. Answer to this question is required I have assisted with plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R maintenance under direct supervision from others. I have maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently maintained plumbing, pipefitting, electrical systems, or HVAC-R systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing plumbing, pipefitting, electrical, and HVAC-R work. None of the above. 8 Choose the building systems for which you have performed routine or repetitive maintenance tasks? Answer to this question is required Commercial fire detection systems Piping systems (HVAC, pneumatic) Electrical systems HVAC systems None of the above 9 Which building systems have you independently maintained? Answer to this question is required Plumbing systems Piping systems – steam Piping systems – chilled water Piping system – gas Piping systems – pneumatic Piping systems – heating hot water Piping systems – fire suppression systems Electrical systems HVAC systems - fans HVAC systems - controls HVAC systems – variable frequency drives None of the above 10 Choose the highest level in which you have performed mechanical trade duties without more than normal supervision; i.e., HVAC-R, pipefitting/plumbing, electrical? Answer to this question is required I have led workers and generally oversee other journey level technicians in at least two of the trades identified above on a regular and repetitive basis. I have independently performed duties in at least two of the above trade areas at the journey level on a regular and recurring basis. I have performed duties and was fully functioning at the journey level in the HVAC-R OR pipefitting/plumber trade in addition to performing other duties in electrical or carpentry work at an advanced worker level. I have performed duties at the worker level in at least two of the trade areas identified above under the supervision of a journey level technician. None of the above. 11 Select the answer that best describes your experience reviewing facility conditions. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 12 Select the answer that best describes your experience supporting building evacuations and emergencies Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.