Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Essentially, they must (l) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as radiographers in their field. The following meet these requirements: Persons employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel prior to the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986) who show evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to other. Persons first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel after the effective date of the regulation who (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, provided that such persons show evidence of training, experience, and competence as determined by OPM or the employing agency. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload evidence of completing a program that certifies them to administer x-rays or perform radiologic procedures. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-04 grade level, OR meet the education and training requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education/training requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Dental Assistants must be able to perform a wide range of routine and complex reversible intra-oral procedures and are sometimes required to assist in non-routine intra-oral procedures. These duties during surgery include passing/retrieving the appropriate instruments and material for the dentist. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted dentist by stabilizing tissue, the tongue, and cheek during extraction; and/or I have provided irrigation and suction during procedure; and/or I have observed patients for signs of adverse reaction to treatment. I have identified types of surgical instruments needed for extraction of specific teeth; and/or I have prepared surgical site with appropriate armamentarium; and/or I have sanitized patient’s face and draped patient with sterile sheet and towels for surgery. I have assisted dentist during a complicated extraction resulting in elevation of soft tissue and sectioning of tooth; and/or I have assisted dentist in performing an apicoectomy; and/or I have assisted dentist by stabilizing a periosteal flap. None of the above. 5 Dental Assistants must be able to instruct patients in proper oral hygiene and dental care.&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taken and disinfected dental impressions; and/or I have ensured proper disinfection and sealing of cases going to and coming from dental laboratories; and/or I have ensured proper cleaning, disinfection and sterilization of instruments and materials in clinics’ dental laboratory. I have sterilized equipment and instruments between usage; and/or I have disinfected seating areas, operative lights and counter tops before and after an oral procedure; and/or I have used ultrasonic cleaner and steam autoclave. I have demonstrated brushing and flossing techniques with a patient; and/or I have educated patients about the common causes of tooth decay; and/or I have addressed treatment for gum disease. None of the above. 6 Dental Assistants are responsible for making the necessary preparations for each treatment and providing post-treatment patient services.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared appropriate instruments for procedures; and/or I have passed appropriate instruments to dentist; and/or I have disinfected and sterilized all work surfaces, equipment and materials before and after procedures. I have explained procedures to patients and answered any patient questions; and/or I have assisted the dentist by stabilizing tissue, the tongue and cheek during the restoration of tooth; and/or I have provided irrigation and suction during procedures. I have identified types of operative instruments needed for specific procedures; and/or I have prepared the operative site with appropriate armamentarium; and/or I have cleaned and sterilized instruments following operative procedures; and/or I have appropriately disinfected operating area. None of the above. 7 Dental Assistants must be able to take various types of x-rays, position patients properly for x-rays, process images in appropriate digital imaging software, and maintain radiographic equipment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed instructions to properly seat and position the patient for x-rays; and/or I have assisted with maintaining an automated film processor or caring for digital imaging equipment; and/or I have assisted others in mounting mouth films/x-rays. I have assisted in taking and developing bite wing and periapical dental radiographs; and/or I have used automated film processor or digital imaging; and/or I have followed directions in mounting full mouth films/x-rays or handling digital images. I have taken and processed bite wing, periapical, and occlusal dental radiographs to diagnose caries of the teeth and/or intra-oral disease; and/or I have digitally processed and adjusted images for upload to the electronic Medical Record (EMR); and/or I have adjusted radiograph exposure time to compensate for variance in patients. None of the above. Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Essentially, they must (l) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as radiographers in their field. The following meet these requirements: Persons employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel prior to the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986) who show evidence of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to other. Persons first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel after the effective date of the regulation who (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, provided that such persons show evidence of training, experience, and competence as determined by OPM or the employing agency. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload evidence of completing a program that certifies them to administer x-rays or perform radiologic procedures. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level, OR meet the education and training requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education/training requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Dental Assistants must be able to perform a wide range of routine and complex reversible intra-oral procedures and are sometimes required to assist in non-routine intra-oral procedures. These duties during surgery, include passing/retrieving the appropriate instruments and material for the dentist.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted dentist during a complicated extraction resulting in elevation of soft tissue and sectioning of tooth; and/or I have assisted dentist in performing an apicoectomy; and/or I have assisted dentist by stabilizing a periosteal flap. I have assisted dentist by stabilizing tissue, the tongue, and cheek during extraction; and/or I have provided irrigation and suction during procedure; and/or I have observed patient for signs of adverse reaction to treatment. I have removed sutures; and/or I have placed and removed post-surgical dressings; and/or I have irrigated post-surgical extraction sites; and/or I have performed emergency treatment of pericoronitis. None of the above. 5 Dental Assistants must be able to instruct patients in proper oral hygiene and dental care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have demonstrated proper brushing and flossing techniques with a patient; and/or I have educated patients about the common causes of tooth decay; and/or I have addressed treatment for gum disease. I have taken and disinfected dental impressions; and/or I have ensured proper disinfection and sealing of cases going to/coming from dental laboratories; and/or I have ensured proper cleaning, disinfection and sterilization of instruments and materials in clinics' dental laboratory. I have irrigated tissues during surgery to eliminate infectious necrotic debris; and/or I have instructed a patient in the care of a prosthodontic appliance; and/or I have directed the disposal of biohazardous materials. None of the above. 6 Dental Assistants are responsible for making the necessary preparations for each treatment and providing post-treatment patient services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated the procedure to be performed after reviewing the patient’s chart and radiographs and prepared the appropriate materials for treatment; and/or I have placed and removed rubber dams; and/or I have taken primary impressions; and/or I have provided post-operative care instructions to patients. I have prepared appropriate instruments for procedures; and/or I have passed appropriate instruments to dentist; and/or I have disinfected and sterilized all work surfaces, equipment and materials before and after procedures. I have explained procedures to patients and answered any patient questions; and/or I have assisted the dentist by stabilizing tissue, the tongue and cheek during the restoration of tooth; and/or I have provided irrigation and suction during procedures. None of the above. 7 Dental Assistants must be able to take various types of x-rays, position patients properly for x-rays, process images in appropriate digital imaging software, and maintain radiographic equipment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in taking and developing bite wing and periapical dental radiographs; and/or I have used automated film processor or digital imaging; and/or I have followed directions in mounting full mouth films/x-rays or handling digital images. I have taken and processed bite wing, periapical, and occlusal dental radiographs to diagnose caries of the teeth and/or intra-oral disease; and/or I have digitally processed and adjusted images for upload to the electronic Medical Record (EMR); and/or I have adjusted radiograph exposure time to compensate for variance in patients. I have taken and processed panoramic dental radiographs and intra-oral endodontic radiographs; and/or I have took intra-oral x-rays in patient with limited opening; and/or I have taken films used in endodontic procedures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).