Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Budget Analysts must be able to develop, plan, maintain, execute, and disseminate budgeting data. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed project related to finance under the supervision of others; and/or I have assisted others in maintaining daily expense log for the office; and/or I have maintained a petty cash fund. I have performed basic analysis; maintained general budget records and correspondence; and/or I have prepared agenda and recorded minutes for a local budget meeting. I have reviewed current local financial management policies and procedures related to budgeting; and/or I have assisted in the review of annual budget requests; and/or I have prepared preliminary budget estimates for small operating accounts. None of the above. 3 Budget Analyst must be able to analyze and project data from a financial management system automated accounting system, Financial Management Information System and other sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained books or served as treasurer for a club or informal organization; and/or I have worked as a cashier and balanced petty cash/credit purchases to register receipts or equivalent;and/or I have filed accounting records according to office procedures. I have reviewed accounting records to identify errors; and/or I have assisted with the completion of financial statements in the private or government sector; and/or I have printed financial reports utilizing proper criteria. I have worked with others to complete project related to Financial Management; and/or I have participated in an operational review or a comparable internal audit; and/or I have corrected accounting records identified by others. None of the above. 4 Budget Analysts must be knowledgeable of automated financial systems to prepare and retrieve financial data. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used common business machines, including a ten key business calculator and computer to complete assigned work; and/or I have worked as a cashier handling currency, checks and credit; and/or I have retained financial records using an automated system. I have performed data entry functions using systems such as Microsoft Word, access and excel; and/or I have created graphs, charts, tables using automated systems; and/or I have assisted Financial Management staff in generation of monthly financial reports and reconciliations. I have keyed accounting data into the financial program; and/or I have verified funds collected through ATM/Debitek agreed with report printed; and/or I have used automated inmate program to generate reports. None of the above. 5 Budget Analysts must be able to hold seminars for program managers and their assistants to teach budget concepts, principles and interpret printouts and management reports. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered general inquiries on budget; and/or I have worked as a receptionist or customer service representative fielding questions, inquiries and complaints; and/or I have referenced Audit Guidance Memos to assist others in the year-end obligation reviews; and/or I have instructed new unit staff regarding commissary rules and procedures. I have participated on committees relating to financial matters; and/or I have assisted others in retrieving financial data for a workgroups; and/or I have discussed status of projects with supervisor. I have responded to routine inquires on various financial management issues; and/or I have communicated with vendors via phone conversations to resolve billing discrepancies; and/or I have presented updates at staff recalls or meetings of issues related to the Financial Management department. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Budget Analysts must be able to prepare reports, minutes of budget meetings, and compile technical budget information for cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided basic written instructions related to internal Fund Control System or equivalent entity; and/or I have assisted local Cost Center Mangers in tracking departmental funds; and/or I have provided instructions related to the preparation of departmental annual/quarterly budget requests. I have assisted financial management professionals with the creation of budget reports for others to review; and/or I have completed recurring written correspondence in response to financial inquires received from other local staff; and/or I have prepared recurring budget reports for other local level staff and/or to provide to supervisor to complete various projects. I have prepared basic financial reports for supervisory review/approval; and/or I have responded to recurring inquires on various financial management issues; and/or I have prepared general financial correspondence to local level staff via e-mail. None of the above. 3 Budget Analysts must be able to develop, plan, maintain, execute, and disseminate budgeting data. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed allotment documents and identified routine financial discrepancies; and/or I have reconciled fund control records to financial management reports and identified differences; and/or I have identified clearly recognizable unauthorized and/or inappropriate obligation of funds. I have reviewed current local financial management policies and procedures related to budgeting; and/or I have assisted in the review of annual budget requests; and/or I have prepared preliminary budget estimates for small operating accounts. I have performed basic analysis; and/or I have maintained general budget records and correspondence; and/or I have prepared agenda and recorded minutes at local budget meetings. None of the above. 4 Budget Analyst must be able to analyze and project data from a financial management system automated accounting system, Financial Management Information System and other sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with others to complete project related to Financial Management; and/or I have participated in an operational review or a comparable internal audit; and/or I have corrected accounting records identified by others. I have reviewed accounting records to identify errors; and/or I have assisted with the completion of financial statements in the private or government sector; and/or I have printed financial reports utilizing proper criteria. I have certified deposit and payment vouchers; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of annual accounts receivable report; and/or I have followed established guidelines/user guides for operating local financial management systems. None of the above. 5 Budget Analyst must be knowledgeable of automated financial management systems to prepare and retrieve financial data. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used common business machines, including a ten key business calculator and computer to complete assigned work; and/or I have worked as a cashier handling currency, checks and credit; and/or I have retained financial records using an automated system. I have keyed in financial data accurately into an automated system; and/or I have utilized software programs involving use of spreadsheets; and/or I have utilized systems to generate position reports for the Human Resource Manager and Financial Manager. I have performed data entry functions using systems such as Microsoft Word, access and excel; and/or I have created graphs, charts, tables using automated systems; and/or I have assisted Financial Management staff in generation of monthly financial reports and reconciliations. None of the above. 6 Budget Analyst must be able to hold seminars for program managers and their assistants to teach budget concepts, principles and interpret printouts and management reports. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on committees relating to financial matters; and/or I have assisted others in retrieving financial data for a workgroups; and/or I have discussed status of projects with supervisor. I have responded to routine inquires on various financial management issues; and/or I have communicated with vendors via phone conversations to resolve billing discrepancies; and/or I have presented updates at staff recalls or meetings of issues related to the Financial Management department. I have responded to routine inquires on budget issues; and/or I have provided routine guidance to financial system users (fund control, Financial Management Information System, or equivalent systems, financial spreadsheets); and/or I have taught an established Introduction to Correctional Techniques/New Employee Orientation training class, or equivalent. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).