Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree which includes or is supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education and special education teaching requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In addition, applicants applying for special education teaching positions MUST have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in special education that included at least one course covering the teaching of exceptional students and courses in the appropriate field(s) of specialization. Do you meet the requirements for a special education teaching position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational and course work requirement. KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Special Education Teacher develops and modifies curricula to meet the various learning needs of students. He/she uses their knowledge of curriculum design to develop courses appropriate for adult learners. &nbsp; He/she may modify curriculum by creating supplemental activities and assessing student progress. &nbsp; He/she may also teach in multiple program areas, and therefore, develop lessons using interactive audiovisual aids, group discussion, and computer-assisted instruction with modifications for a variety of students. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used existing course objectives; and or I have identified assessment tools to determine entering skills; and or I have I assisted in the selection of the curriculum. I have modified course objectives; and or I have administered entrance assessment tools; and or I have used course material developed/modified by others. I have with direct supervision, modified course objectives; and or I have with direction, administered assessment tools; and or I have assisted with the selection of group curriculum None of the above. 5 Special Education Teacher plans and conducts an educational program based on the assessment data of students, knowledge of teaching strategies, learning styles, and student interests. &nbsp; Lessons address the unique needs of the students and progress is regularly documented . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted the development of lesson plans with supplemental activities; and or I have identified the remedial needs and interests of the students; and or I have documented student progress through reports and re-testing; and or I have modified curriculum based on student remedial needs. I have conducted lessons based upon established student interests; and or I have monitored student progress through classroom group activities; and or I have assessed student needs through informal methods. I have facilitated lesson plans based upon student needs; and or I have used supplemental activities to remediate deficits; and or I have assessed student progress through formal re-testing. None of the above. 6 Special Education Teacher utilizes a variety of assessment measures to develop effective education plans for their students . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used others specific interpretation of informal test results to place students in appropriate class/group; and or I have used remedial strategies suggested by the curriculum; and or I have assessed progress through observing classroom activities. I have monitored classroom assessments; and or I have used remedial strategies suggested by others; and or I have assessed progress through formal and informal measures. I have assisted with the administration and scoring of formal and informal diagnostic tests; and or I have assisted with the development of remedial strategies; and or I have assisted in assessing the progress with retesting using formal assessment measures. None of the above. 7 Special Education Teacher provides instruction to a variety of individuals from various backgrounds . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used curriculum developed by others, instructed students from various backgrounds; and or I have encouraged open discussions with students of various cultures/backgrounds in a classroom setting; and or I have used existing supplemental activities developed by others to integrate various content and perspectives. I have worked with different groups of individuals in the community setting, such as through coaching or as a Boy/Girl Scouts leader, etc.; and or I have identified and used culturally different supplemental materials in the classroom; and or I have addressed different cultural and economic perspectives during class lectures. I have obtained various guest speakers for classes; and or I have identified and intervened when cultural differences caused conflict in classroom; and or I have addressed different cultural and economic perspectives through communication/discussions in classroom; and or I have worked as a translator. None of the above. 8 Special Education Teacher possesses knowledge of special education theories, identification procedures, assessment, placement and individualized instruction for students with special learning needs . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed classroom procedures to identify students with learning problems; and or I have assisted with the administration and interpretation of individualized diagnostic instruments, such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement, and other instruments; and or I have recommended an individualized education program based upon assessment results. I have assisted in the development of classroom procedures for identifying students with learning problems; and or I have assisted with interpreting individualized diagnostic instruments, such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement, and other instruments; and or I have assisted with the development of individualized instructional programs. I have used existing school procedures for identifying students with learning problems; and or I have used test results and recommendations/guidance from others to identify student strengths and weaknesses; and or I have modified existing individualized plans developed by others as an instructional guide for teaching. None of the above. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree which includes or is supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education and special education teaching requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In addition, applicants applying for special education teaching positions MUST have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in special education that included at least one course covering the teaching of exceptional students and courses in the appropriate field(s) of specialization. Do you meet the requirements for a special education teaching position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational and course work requirement. KSA QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Special Education Teacher develops and modifies curricula to meet the various learning needs of students. He/she uses their knowledge of curriculum design to develop courses appropriate for adult learners. He/she may modify curriculum by creating supplemental activities and assessing student progress. He/she may also teach in multiple program areas, and therefore, develop lessons using interactive audiovisual aids, group discussion, and computer-assisted instruction with modifications for a variety of students. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used existing course objectives; and or I have identified assessment tools to determine entering skills; and or I have assisted in the selection of the curriculum. I have independently developed and implemented basic course objectives; and or I have implemented assessment tools; and or I have created supplemental activities for modified curriculum; and or I have tailored course materials to meet modified curriculum; and or I have identified learning strategies and materials. I have modified course objectives; and or I have administered entrance assessment tools; and or I have used course material developed/modified by others. None of the above. 5 Special Education Teacher plans and conducts an educational program based on the assessment data of students, knowledge of teaching strategies, learning styles, and student interests. Lessons address the unique needs of the students and progress is regularly documented. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted the development of lesson plans with supplemental activities; and or I have identified the remedial needs and interests of the students; and or I have documented student progress through reports and re-testing; and or I have modified curriculum based on student remedial needs. I have facilitated lesson plans based upon student needs; and or I have used supplemental activities to remediate deficits; and or I have assessed student progress through formal re-testing. I have interpreted assessment data; and or I have developed a portion of an education program; and or I have monitored education program progress. None of the above. 6 Special Education Teacher utilizes a variety of assessment measures to develop effective education plans for their students. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the administration and scoring of formal and informal diagnostic tests; and or I have assisted with the development of remedial strategies; and or I have assisted in assessing the progress with retesting using formal assessment measures. I have selected, administered, and scored informal diagnostic tests for specific classes; and or I have reviewed assessment results; and or I have with assistance from others, developed a variety of appropriate remedial strategies for own use; and or I have assessed progress using formal and informal measures. I have monitored classroom assessments; and or I have used remedial strategies suggested by others; and or I have assessed progress through formal and informal measures. None of the above. 7 Special Education Teacher provides instruction to a variety of individuals from various backgrounds. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed curriculum appropriate for students of varying backgrounds; and or I have developed supplemental activities in order to integrate varying content and perspective; and or I have independently developed and tailored motivational techniques for different student populations. I have using curriculum developed by others, instructed students from various backgrounds; and or I have encouraged open discussions with students of various cultures/backgrounds in a classroom setting; and or I have used existing supplemental activities developed by others to integrate various content and perspectives. I have obtained various guest speakers for classes; and or I have identified and intervened when cultural differences caused conflict in classroom; and or I have addressed different cultural and economic perspectives through communication/discussions in classroom; and or I have worked as a translator. None of the above. 8 Special Education Teacher possesses knowledge of special education theories, identification procedures, assessment, placement and individualized instruction for students with special learning needs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the development of classroom procedures for identifying students with learning problems; and or I have assisted with interpreting individualized diagnostic instruments, such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement, and other instruments; and or I have assisted with the development of individualized instructional programs. I have processed extensive learning theories related to students with special learning needs; and or I have developed procedures for identifying students with learning problems; and or I have reviewed individualized diagnostic instruments such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement and other instruments for students; and or I have assisted a psychologist or treatment team to recommend appropriate placements for students. I have developed classroom procedures to identify students with learning problems; and or I have assisted with the administration and interpretation of individualized diagnostic instruments, such as the Woodcock-Johnson (WJ) Tests of Achievement, and other instruments; and or I have recommended an individualized education program based upon assessment results. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).