Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The National Drug Free Workplace Coordinator interacts with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of fact finding, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, clarify issues and give or receive advice and guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations related to the overall drug testing program for the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided interpretation of highly technical policies or procedures to staff; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on changes or revisions within specific area; and/or I have facilitated technical training to staff at all levels; and/or I have provided information to an administrator that assisted them with his/her program area; and/or I have interacted with Bureau of Prisons managers while involved in a project; and/or I have coordinated meetings of the Utilization Management Committee; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have exchanged technical data and information with various members of the agency, which included employees from the institution, region and Central Office. I have initiated and participated in Drug-Free Workplace/Federal Highway Administration conferences; and/or I have relayed and expressed the official Bureau of Prisons’ policy regarding employee urinalysis testing; and/or I have made program recommendations for changes or alternative courses of action for resolution of problems unique to drug and alcohol testing within a correctional environment; and/or I have represented Bureau of Prisons at intra-governmental and extra-governmental meetings related to drug testing and alcohol testing; and/or I have maintained and administered two national programs the Federal Drug-Free Workplace Program and the Federal Highway Administration Program for drug and alcohol testing of commercial driver. I have advised/instructed clerical and administrative staff regarding interpretations/clarifications of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have maintained appropriate and highly professional relationship with patients (inmates); and/or I have contacted Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations in order to clarify information for medical facility; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have directed inquiries requiring in-depth information to the appropriate staff. I have provided assistance to Wardens in understanding current policy; and/or I have provided expert advice on the Bureau’s drug and alcohol testing programs among all Federal Government Agency Drug Program Officers; and/or I have worked as liaison between Bureau of Prisons, other drug testing programs, and the Department of Health and Human Services; and/or I have trained and taught the Bureau’s drug testing policies to field and Central Office line, supervisory and managerial staff, and the Bureau’s Executive Staff. None of the above. 5 The National Drug Free Workplace Coordinator communicates in writing with staff at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding a variety of issues. He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, charts, etc., to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. He/she must possess strong written communication skills to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. Correspondence will vary from internal departmental documents up to and including assisting in the preparation of reports to outside entities, (i.e., Office of Inspector General, Congress, the White House, etc.). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed meeting agenda, training session materials, and participant handouts; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information or memoranda for staff; and/or I have edited/corrected/suggested revisions for incoming technical documents from sections for signature of the CEO; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements or technical guidelines for staff within the department. I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries from outside agencies; and/or I have established and implemented all changes in policy regarding the Bureau of Prisons Drug-Free Workplace Program, and the Bureau of Prisons drug and alcohol testing of commercial drivers; and/or I have prepared an annual report/document specific to their area of responsibility; and/or I have prepared reports, position papers, and correspondence on a wide variety of program issues independently, or at the request of high-level management official. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have worked with Contracting Officer Representative (COR) to develop statement of work for project/service within the department; and/or I have conducted surveys and provided written recommendations to appropriate manager(s). I have developed manuals to guide Health Services specimen collectors in the field, local coordinators for the commercial driver testing program, written internal policy/institution supplement/operations memorandum; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have prepared recommendations for legislation to change implementation of the Drug-Free Workplace Program and the Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration program for drug and alcohol testing of commercial drivers. None of the above. 6 The National Drug Free Workplace Coordinator must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, DFWP data management systems, SGRAC databases, to be able to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data and provide information for interpretations. He/she must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and utilized information databases for medical, surgical and psychiatric admissions for tracking requirements and trending purposes to identify most effective utilization of resources; and/or I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system or spreadsheet; and/or I have provided software technical support to users of personal computers and associated equipment and utilized a variety of computer programs including Microsoft Access, Visual Basic, FrontPage, SQL, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint and Microsoft Excel compatible. I have maintained and entered information into databases for medical, surgical and psychiatric admissions for tracking/trending purposes; and/or I have provided basic software technical support for PC users and associated equipment; and/or I have trained management or line staff to use computer programs (i.e., grammar checking, outlining systems, idea processors, project management and decision modeling programs). I have initiated, developed, and maintained computer programs that generated the employee testing lists; and/or I have developed a manual to be used by Human Resource or other Bureau of Prisons staff in the use of the computer software used for transmitting and receiving drug testing information; and/or I have provided guidance to staff in the area of data collection systems; and/or I have reviewed and provided comments on draft policy with regard to implementing or improvement of the data collection systems; and/or I have developed materials used in management or computer training course; and/or I have provided written updates on pending strategic goal progress/departmental accomplishments. I have utilized a wide variety of hardware and software; and/or I have entered statistical data into an agency specific database to accurately track information used by management; and/or I have used available automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments; and/or I have programmed/set parameters to software applications such as Microsoft Access, or other programs; and/or I have entered or retrieved data from a server or personal computer to formulate graphs/spreadsheets; and/or I have manipulated information and data for use in data processing. I have developed or assisted with development of highly detailed and technical presentations for superiors, using a variety of software, in order for superiors to make presentations for meetings, conferences, Executive Staff, task/work groups, etc.; and/or I have used software programs to manage large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data from a project; and/or I have applied set parameters of Microsoft Access, or other programs by entering data and running reports; and/or I have accessed the internet to research federal guidelines or related information. None of the above. 7 The National Drug Free Workplace Coordinator collects, analyzes, and interprets information such as medical trending data (i.e., rates of diabetes, HIV, TB, etc.), retention data for staff, etc. He/she plans develops and conducts internal review studies on activities and organizations of certain limited capacity. He/she use the studies to assess program compliance and develop improved techniques to meet organizational goals determined by supervisor. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a representative of the quality management team; and/or I have promoted appropriate quality patient care services; and/or I have extracted and input data from a spreadsheet (i.e., Microsoft Excel, etc.); and/or I have distributed operating funds to cost center(s) within sections; and/or I have reconciled fund control and reported discrepancies. I have reviewed and responded to correspondence from Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, White House, Office of National Drug Control Policy, Congress, the court system or other agencies that are testing; and/or I have reviewed published professional papers and on-site inspections/audits of collection sites, medical review sites, and contract urinalysis testing laboratory facilities; and/or I have compiled, analyzed and stored statistical data regarding the testing program; and/or I have developed and organized reports on data for the Executive Staff; and/or I have administered the mandatory guidelines by continuous review, comparison, alteration and implementation. I have worked as a representative of a Drug Free Workplace quality management team; and/or I have overseen a Drug Free Workplace program; and/or I have coordinated and managed the utilization management program by assisting in the planning, organization, and evaluation of health care in a cost-effective manner None of the above. 8 The National Drug Free Workplace Coordinator must be able to utilize time and resources to devise plans, procedures, or methods to carry out the work assignments related to the clerical and administrative functions of the Drug Free Workplace Program. He/she is accorded wide latitude for exercising independent judgement, time planning and resource management within the program. He/she must understand critical projects and the order and due dates which these projects will require completion. He/she must understand the significance, scope, and effect of all phases of work performed and reviewed. He/she will be responsible for both scheduled and unscheduled collection of urinalysis samples, requiring flexibility and time management skills. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated work as a team leader; and/or I have re-evaluated priorities of projects based on shifting time lines; and/or I have coordinated numerous work assignments ahead of due date; and/or I have established new filing systems or other data collection system and trained co-workers on the system; and/or I have used judgement in determining priorities of work assignments based on knowledge of operations/functions; and/or I have established systems enabling review and tracking of various documents (i.e., sensitive controlled, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, Privacy Act, congressional correspondence, reports, etc.); and/or I have established reporting deadlines and coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures; and/or I have generated reports to keep abreast of on-going projects. I have represented the professionalism and integrity of the Bureau of Prisons’ applicant and employee drug and alcohol testing programs; and/or I have insured that all representations and information distributed are accurate and professional in tone and presentation; and/or I have extended latitude in developing, analyzing, altering and implementing policies regarding drug and alcohol testing using the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration and other Agency Guidelines; and/or I have implemented broad agency-wide objectives regarding employee drug and alcohol testing; and/or I have overseen Agency-wide long range comprehensive planning, development, preparation, coordination and implementation of the Agency’s drug and alcohol testing policies and programs,. I have organized and maintained logging system for all work categories in office; and/or I have reviewed work of incoming reports, Congressional correspondence, etc., to ensure completeness, accuracy, correct grammar and spelling; and/or I have assisted/made suggestions in order to assist less experienced staff in meeting time lines and due dates; and/or I have maintained calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completing prior to/before due dates; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code, or accounting code, etc.); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step. None of the above. 9 The National Drug Free Workplace Coordinator must possess the ability to effectively manage the National Drug-Free Workplace program (DFWP). Responsibility includes, but it not limited to managing the national budget, training collectors in the field, responding to legal inquiries, and maintaining the integrity of the National Drug-Free Workplace program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised performance evaluations or performance logs; and/or I have directed the work of subordinates or other staff members; and/or I have recommended staff for awards; and/or I have counseled employees on their performance; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures, priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).