Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 Choose ONE Statement from the descriptions below that best describes you. Answer to this question is required I have completed a Doctoral Degree, or equivalent, directly related to full professional work in Clinical Psychology (i.e., PH.D. Degree, or equivalent, in Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology). I will complete a Doctoral Degree, or equivalent, directly related to full professional work in Clinical Psychology (i.e., PH.D. Degree, or equivalent, in Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology) within the next 9 months. I have not completed any of the above. NOTE: You MUST provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 Quality Ranking Factor: Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for the doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited educational institution, directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Staff Psychologist must be able to select, administer, score, and interpret a variety of assessments, using a multi-method approach to form a diagnosis accurately, evaluate presenting question, and communicate results in written and verbal formats appropriate to the site. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of at least five personality/intellectual assessments; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives, and staff consultation to formulate and understand the mental status and diagnostic components for a wide range of disorders. None of the above. 4 The Staff Psychologist must be able to conceptualize, plan and implement through multiple therapeutic modalities, interventions with fidelity to empirical models and flexibility to adapt where appropriate while evaluating treatment progress and modifying planning as indicated by the context or case. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. I have responded to crisis or potential crisis (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) cases non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted three types of group interventions non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and articulated clear rationale matching model to incarcerated individual in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. None of the above. 5 The Staff Psychologist must relate effectively and meaningfully with other professionals by providing expert assistance and communication (verbal and written) in response to client or system needs and goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained effective relationships with supervisors by providing weekly written updates on case load; and/or I have verbally communicated with supervisor and solicited advice/feedback regarding incarcerated individuals progress; and/or I have during peer review or group supervision, provided clinical opinion on clinical case management or treatment recommendation. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with mental health treatment teams; and/or I have provided written feedback/notes on clinical cases to the mental health treatment team; and/or I have provided verbal feedback and opinions during treatment team meetings. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with staff external to Psychology, including, Medical, Case Management, Correctional Services; and/or I have contributed relevant incarcerated individuals case data to Case Management Team meetings; and/or I have prepared reports and communicated findings to upper management on high-risk or crisis cases; and/or I have trained non-medical staff on managing a incarcerated individuals whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 6 The Staff Psychologist is oriented toward furthering his/her professional identity and growth including receiving and providing supervision, engaging in scholarship, and demonstrating his/her commitment to the development of the profession. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have with supervisory guidance, resolved situations that had custodial or treatment implications; and/or I have during clinical supervision identified complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody or care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have made a presentation on professional psychology at a scientific meeting/professional conference. I have successfully completed a class on professional psychology ethics; and/or I have successfully completed a class or had training in legal issues relevant to the practice of professional psychology; and/or I have attended a professional psychology seminar or scientific session at a conference. I have used professional experience to resolve high-stress ethically unclear situations that had custodial and treatment implications; and/or I have provided instruction to non-clinical staff about ethically maintaining the treatment and custody needs of disruptive incarcerated individuals; and/or I have identified and resolved complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody and care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have authored a paper on professional psychology in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 Choose ONE Statement from the descriptions below that best describes you. Answer to this question is required I have completed a Doctoral Degree, or equivalent, directly related to full professional work in Clinical Psychology (i.e., PH.D. Degree, or equivalent, in Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology) AND I have completed one full year of professional experience as a Clinical Psychologist equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service. I have not completed the education and/or experience described above. NOTE: You MUST provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Quality Ranking Factor: Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for the doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited educational institution, directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. Do you meet the Quality Ranking Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position AND I have submitted a copy of my transcript to verify education. No, I do not meet the Quality Ranking Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Staff Psychologist must be able select, administer, score, and interpret a variety of assessments, using a multi-method approach to form a diagnosis accurately, evaluate presenting question, and communicate results in written and verbal formats appropriate to the site. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychological Treatment Programs in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives, and staff consultation to formulate and understand the mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a criminal justice setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand the mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have completed and communicated findings of suicide risk assessments and recommended suicide watch when appropriate in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have completed and communicated findings of personality/intellectual assessments and recommended placement in various Psychology Treatment Programs in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have elicited relevant history from interview, collateral narratives and staff consultation to formulate and understand mental status and diagnostic components for a wide-range of disorders in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. None of the above. 5 The Staff Psychologist must be able to conceptualize, plan and implement through multiple therapeutic modalities, interventions with fidelity to empirical models and flexibility to adapt where appropriate while evaluating treatment progress and modifying planning as indicated by the context or case. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a secured/locked mental health setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a secured/locked mental health setting. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a non-secure/outpatient mental health or other setting. I have responded to and resolved crisis situations (i.e., suicidal, self-harm thoughts/behavior, perpetrator or victim of violence) in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have conducted various group and individual interventions in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have conducted treatment with incarcerated individuals on suicide watch in a criminal justice setting; and/or I have conceptualized cases from more than one theoretical perspective and matching model to incarcerated individuals in a criminal justice setting. None of the above. 6 The Staff Psychologist must relate effectively and meaningfully with other professionals by providing expert assistance and communication (verbal and written) in response to client or system needs and goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated with other disciplines (i.e., contract health care providers, Medical, Correctional Services, Case Management, etc.,) to defuse/resolve conflicts over treatment or management approaches with incarcerated individuals; and/or I have maintained verbal and written communication with upper management and other disciplines (i.e., contract health care providers, Medical, Correctional Services, Case Management, etc.,) to ensure continuity of care of high risk or crisis cases; and/or I have wrote or edited curricula to train non-medical staff on managing a incarcerated individuals whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with staff external to Psychology, including, Medical, Case Management, Correctional Services; and/or I have contributed relevant incarcerated individuals case data to Case Management Team meetings; and/or I have prepared reports and communicated findings to upper management on high-risk or crisis cases; and/or I have trained non-medical staff on managing a incarcerated individuals whose behavior was continuously disruptive. I have developed and maintained effective relationships with mental health treatment teams; and/or I have provided written feedback/notes on clinical cases to the mental health treatment team; and/or I have provided verbal feedback and opinions during treatment team meetings. None of the above. 7 The Staff Psychologist is oriented toward furthering his/her professional identity and growth including receiving and providing supervision, engaging in scholarship, and demonstrating his/her commitment to the development of the profession. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have with supervisory guidance, resolved situations that had custodial or treatment implications; and/or I have during clinical supervision identified complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody or care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have made a presentation on professional psychology at a scientific meeting/professional conference. I have used professional experience to resolve high-stress ethically unclear situations that had custodial and treatment implications; and/or I have provided instruction to non-clinical staff about ethically maintaining the treatment and custody needs of disruptive incarcerated individuals; and/or I have identified and resolved complex legal and ethical issues that arise in the custody and care of incarcerated individuals; and/or I have authored a paper on professional psychology in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. I have created or edited curriculum to train non-clinical staff about ethically maintaining the treatment and custody needs of disruptive incarcerated individuals; and/or I have authored a paper on a topic of relevance to criminal justice and professional psychology in a peer-reviewed scientific journal; and/or I have as an Employee Assistance Program coordinator/provider/member of a Crisis Support/Confrontation Avoidance Team, provided professional expertise to resolve ethically unclear situations involving staff, incarcerated individuals, or both. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 Previous law enforcement experience or Veterans Preference: Answer to this question is required I have previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position covered by special retirement provisions and will provide an SF-50 as proof of such service at the time I apply, OR I am a qualified preference eligible. I have NOT previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position; AND I am NOT a preference eligible. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Human Resources Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Social Media (Linkedln, Twitter, etc.) Other 8 Which of the following factors listed below influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Please select 1-5 answers. Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP 9 Which of the following factors listed below was the single most important factor that influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP Not addressed above 9.1 Please briefly describe below the important factor, which was not addressed, that influenced your decision to apply: Maximum length of 75 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).