Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 [56003] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [70518] Choose the statement that best fits how you meet the specialized experience and/or education for this Marine Surveyor, GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience with ship operations, maintenance and repair including oversight of shipyard work for United States ships AND experience supporting technical elements of ship repair and maintenance including providing inputs to schedules and budgets, and ensuring compliance with contract requirements AND experience in utilizing computerized ship maintenance tracking and reporting systems including data entry, and generating reports. This experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements above. 3 [70485] Choose the statement that best describes your experience applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships to commercial standards. Answer to this question is required I have education and training applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships to commercial standards, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships under close supervision, review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job. Only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job. Even in unique or unusual situations I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have supervised others in applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job and provide senior management advice and recommendations concerning these subjects. I have transferable skills and experience related to marine engineering and maintenance and repair from other than of ocean-going US flag cargo ships. I have no experience related to marine engineering and maintenance and repair from other than of ocean-going US flag cargo ships. 4 [70486] Choose the statement the best describes your experience conducting technical, operational assessment and evaluation of shipboard equipment, structures, or system. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have education and training in conducting technical, operational assessments and evaluating shipboard equipment, structures, and system, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have conducted technical and operational assessments of shipboard equipment, systems, and structures as part of a team and provided the results to others to evaluate. I have conducted technical and operational assessments and prepared evaluations of shipboard equipment, systems and structures and provided recommendations for necessary corrective actions for review by my supervisor or senior manager. I have conducted technical and operational assessments and prepared evaluations of shipboard equipment, systems and structures and made decisions for necessary corrective action, without supervision or oversight. I have no experience conducting technical and operational assessments of shipboard equipment, systems, and structures. 5 [70621] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing and/or approving ship repair packages. Answer to this question is required I have prepared repair specification for individual shipboard equipment, structures, or systems. I have prepared ship repair estimates at the individual line items level. I have prepared a complete repair package for ship repairs (less than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I reviewed and approved a complete technical package for ship repairs (less than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I have prepared a complete major technical package for ship repairs (more than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I have no experience preparing ship repair packages. 6 [70488] Select the statements that best describes your experience conducting root cause analysis. Answer to this question is required I have the education and training to conduct root cause analysis, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have participated as a team member in conducting root cause analysis. I have independently conducted or lead a team in conducting root cause analysis. I have evaluated and recommended actions based on root cause analysis conducted by others. I have no experience conducting root cause analysis. 7 [70489] Select the statements that best describes your experience conducting studies to determine improvements and cost efficiency in ship maintenance and/or operations. Answer to this question is required I have the education and training to conduct studies to make improvements to ship maintenance and operations. I have participated as a team member in studies to determine cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have independently conducted or lead a team in studies to determine cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have evaluated and recommended actions based on studies on cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have transferable skills from participating in or conducting engineering/technical studies not related to ocean-going ships. I have no experience conducting engineering/technical studies. 8 [70624] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing annual budgets and schedules for maintenance and operations small craft or ships. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided budgetary input for the development of annual budgets. I have prepared annual budgets and schedules for small craft or ship maintenance and submitted to others for review and approval. I have transferable skills and experience related preparing annual budgets for other than small craft/ship maintenance. I have no experience preparing annual budget, plans and schedules. 9 [70626] Select the statement that describes your experience planning for regulatory surveys/inspections and major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have participated in planning for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections. I have participated in planning for American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. I have prepared plans for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections and/or American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks and submitted to others for review and approval. I have transferable skills and experience in planning for inspections other than American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections for ship repairs and/or drydocks. I do not have experience preparing planning for inspections related to ship repairs and/or drydocks. 10 [70493] Select the statements that best describes your experience monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs such as Lube oil test and analysis, Fuel oil test and analysis and Boiler Water chemistry testing. Answer to this question is required I have collected samples and conducted test and/or submitted samples for analysis. I have supervised the collections of samples, conducting test and/or submitting samples for analysis. I have evaluated findings and/or made recommendations on taking corrective action monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs. I have reviewed and approved plans for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections and/or American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. I have managed shipboard testing programs or evaluating the effectiveness of shipboard testing programs. I do not have experience monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs such as Lube oil test and analysis, Fuel oil test and analysis and Boiler Water chemistry testing. 11 [70628] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing schedule and ad-hoc technical status reports within your organization. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided input or data to others for inclusion in scheduled and ad-hoc status reports. I have prepared scheduled technical status and ad-hoc reports as a regular part of my job for review by a senior employee, supervisor, or manager. I have prepared scheduled technical status and ad-hoc reports that include analysis of any programmatic risk impacts to the organization's mission, programs, or initiatives to senior managers. I have no experience preparing technical status or ad-hoc reports. 12 [70499] Select the statement that best describes your experience participating in sea trials of ocean-going ships. Answer to this question is required I have participated in sea trials as crew member or observer with no specific duties. I have participated in sea trials actively testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the sea trial planning and actively participated in testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the management and planning of sea trials and have actively participated in testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the planning and managed of sea trials, directed sea trial activities, participated in testing and/or recording test parameters, evaluated results, and made recommendations on passing or failing all or portions of sea trials. I have participated in the planning and managed of sea trials, directed sea trial activities, participated in testing and/or recording test parameters, evaluated results, and made decisions on passing or failing all or portions of sea trials. I have participated in post sea trial review of sea trial data and results and have recommended follow-on actions if necessary. I do not have experience with sea trials. 13 [70730] Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience working with credentialed US Merchant Mariners. Answer to this question is required I have held US Merchant Mariner credentials. I have worked with US Merchant Mariners as per of daily duties. I have reviewed and approved overtime request for US Merchant Mariners. I have made recommendations regarding the size and mix of US Merchant Mariners on US flag ships. I have made management decisions regarding the size and mix of US Merchant Mariners on US flag ships. I have transferable skills and expertise working with ship crews that are not credentialed US Merchant Mariners (e.g. US Navy, Army, or Coast Guard). I do not have experience working with credentialed US Merchant Mariners. 14 [70507] Select the statement that best describes your contract management experience. Answer to this question is required I have not been involved in contract management. I have assisted in the development of scopes of work or request for proposals (RFPs) for contracts and reviewed technical proposals for contracts less than $1 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs at the direction of others and reviewed technical and cost proposals for contracts less than $1 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs for contracts and been the lead responsible for review of technical and cost proposals and made recommendations on the selection of a contractor for contracts less than $1 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs at the direction of others and reviewed technical and cost proposals for contracts greater than $1 million. 15 [70500] Select the statement below that best describes your experience monitoring contractor performance.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I participated in oversight of contractors. I have monitored contractor performance against established quality standards or contract specifications and provided reports to supervisor or management. I have developed quality standards as part of a statement of work or contract. I have developed a formal quality assurance or quality assurance surveillance plan. I have provided quality assessments to the contract manager/officer for resolution of contract performance. I have had little or no experience with monitoring contractor performance. 16 [70498] Select the statement that describes your experience with computer software and computerized maintenance tracking systems. Answer to this question is required I have basic proficiency in using standard office software such as Microsoft Outlook, Word, and Excel. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits as well as experience with collaborate computer tools such as Microsoft Teams, Zoom, and SharePoint. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have specific experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking systems such as AMOS, SAM, or ABS Nautical Systems. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have specific experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking and specific experience with ABS Nautical Systems. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have transferal skill with computerized maintenance tracking systems not directly related to ship maintenance. I have no experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking system. Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [70512] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience advising and providing guidance for ship operations, maintenance, and repair of U.S. Flag ships including major shipyard availabilities and drydocks, and application of regulatory body (i.e., American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), United States Coast Guard (USCG), etc.) vessel requirements? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [70513] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience &nbsp; providing oversight of technical elements of ship repair and maintenance including preparing schedules and budgets, ensuring compliance of contract requirements and regulatory standards, and providing analysis to senior management concerning the schedule and cost of on-going work? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [70514] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience in providing assessments and technical reports on the material conditions of ships, utilizing computerized ship maintenance tracking and reporting systems including data entry, report generation, and analysis? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [70485] Choose the statement that best describes your experience applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships to commercial standards. Answer to this question is required I have education and training applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships to commercial standards, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships under close supervision, review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job. Only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job. Even in unique or unusual situations I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have supervised others in applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job and provide senior management advice and recommendations concerning these subjects. I have transferable skills and experience related to marine engineering and maintenance and repair from other than of ocean-going US flag cargo ships. I have no experience related to marine engineering and maintenance and repair from other than of ocean-going US flag cargo ships. 6 [70486] Choose the statement the best describes your experience conducting technical, operational assessment and evaluation of shipboard equipment, structures, or system. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have education and training in conducting technical, operational assessments and evaluating shipboard equipment, structures, and system, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have conducted technical and operational assessments of shipboard equipment, systems, and structures as part of a team and provided the results to others to evaluate. I have conducted technical and operational assessments and prepared evaluations of shipboard equipment, systems and structures and provided recommendations for necessary corrective actions for review by my supervisor or senior manager. I have conducted technical and operational assessments and prepared evaluations of shipboard equipment, systems and structures and made decisions for necessary corrective action, without supervision or oversight. I have no experience conducting technical and operational assessments of shipboard equipment, systems, and structures. 7 [70621] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing and/or approving ship repair packages. Answer to this question is required I have prepared repair specification for individual shipboard equipment, structures, or systems. I have prepared ship repair estimates at the individual line items level. I have prepared a complete repair package for ship repairs (less than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I reviewed and approved a complete technical package for ship repairs (less than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I have prepared a complete major technical package for ship repairs (more than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I have no experience preparing ship repair packages. 8 [70488] Select the statements that best describes your experience conducting root cause analysis. Answer to this question is required I have the education and training to conduct root cause analysis, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have participated as a team member in conducting root cause analysis. I have independently conducted or lead a team in conducting root cause analysis. I have evaluated and recommended actions based on root cause analysis conducted by others. I have no experience conducting root cause analysis. 9 [70489] Select the statements that best describes your experience conducting studies to determine improvements and cost efficiency in ship maintenance and/or operations. Answer to this question is required I have the education and training to conduct studies to make improvements to ship maintenance and operations. I have participated as a team member in studies to determine cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have independently conducted or lead a team in studies to determine cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have evaluated and recommended actions based on studies on cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have transferable skills from participating in or conducting engineering/technical studies not related to ocean-going ships. I have no experience conducting engineering/technical studies. 10 [70623] Select the statement that describes your experience preparing annual business plans, budgets and schedules for maintenance and operations of ocean-going ships. &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided budgetary input for the development of annual budgets for ship maintenance and/or operations. I have provided maintenance and repair schedules for inclusion of annual plans and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations. I have evaluated cost and schedule risk related to annual budgets, plans and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations. I have prepared annual budgets and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations and submitted to others for review and approval. I have transferable skills and experience related preparing annual budget, plans and schedules for other than ship maintenance and/or operations. I have no experience preparing annual budget, plans and schedules. 11 [70626] Select the statement that describes your experience planning for regulatory surveys/inspections and major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have participated in planning for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections. I have participated in planning for American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. I have prepared plans for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections and/or American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks and submitted to others for review and approval. I have transferable skills and experience in planning for inspections other than American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections for ship repairs and/or drydocks. I do not have experience preparing planning for inspections related to ship repairs and/or drydocks. 12 [70493] Select the statements that best describes your experience monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs such as Lube oil test and analysis, Fuel oil test and analysis and Boiler Water chemistry testing. Answer to this question is required I have collected samples and conducted test and/or submitted samples for analysis. I have supervised the collections of samples, conducting test and/or submitting samples for analysis. I have evaluated findings and/or made recommendations on taking corrective action monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs. I have reviewed and approved plans for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections and/or American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. I have managed shipboard testing programs or evaluating the effectiveness of shipboard testing programs. I do not have experience monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs such as Lube oil test and analysis, Fuel oil test and analysis and Boiler Water chemistry testing. 13 [70628] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing schedule and ad-hoc technical status reports within your organization. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided input or data to others for inclusion in scheduled and ad-hoc status reports. I have prepared scheduled technical status and ad-hoc reports as a regular part of my job for review by a senior employee, supervisor, or manager. I have prepared scheduled technical status and ad-hoc reports that include analysis of any programmatic risk impacts to the organization's mission, programs, or initiatives to senior managers. I have no experience preparing technical status or ad-hoc reports. 14 [70499] Select the statement that best describes your experience participating in sea trials of ocean-going ships. Answer to this question is required I have participated in sea trials as crew member or observer with no specific duties. I have participated in sea trials actively testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the sea trial planning and actively participated in testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the management and planning of sea trials and have actively participated in testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the planning and managed of sea trials, directed sea trial activities, participated in testing and/or recording test parameters, evaluated results, and made recommendations on passing or failing all or portions of sea trials. I have participated in the planning and managed of sea trials, directed sea trial activities, participated in testing and/or recording test parameters, evaluated results, and made decisions on passing or failing all or portions of sea trials. I have participated in post sea trial review of sea trial data and results and have recommended follow-on actions if necessary. I do not have experience with sea trials. 15 [70730] Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience working with credentialed US Merchant Mariners. Answer to this question is required I have held US Merchant Mariner credentials. I have worked with US Merchant Mariners as per of daily duties. I have reviewed and approved overtime request for US Merchant Mariners. I have made recommendations regarding the size and mix of US Merchant Mariners on US flag ships. I have made management decisions regarding the size and mix of US Merchant Mariners on US flag ships. I have transferable skills and expertise working with ship crews that are not credentialed US Merchant Mariners (e.g. US Navy, Army, or Coast Guard). I do not have experience working with credentialed US Merchant Mariners. 16 [70507] Select the statement that best describes your contract management experience. Answer to this question is required I have not been involved in contract management. I have assisted in the development of scopes of work or request for proposals (RFPs) for contracts and reviewed technical proposals for contracts less than $1 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs at the direction of others and reviewed technical and cost proposals for contracts less than $1 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs for contracts and been the lead responsible for review of technical and cost proposals and made recommendations on the selection of a contractor for contracts less than $1 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs at the direction of others and reviewed technical and cost proposals for contracts greater than $1 million. 17 [70497] Select the statements that describes your experience ensuring compliance of ship(s) and shipboard equipment and systems and completed repairs with applicable regulatory standards for US Flag ships. Answer to this question is required I have working knowledge of regulatory standards that apply to US Flag ships such as Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) requirements, US Coast Guard (USCG) and American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) rules, procedures, and requirements. I work with regulatory standards that apply to US Flag ships as a regular part of my job. I resolve low level issues to resolve any regulatory issues and provide recommendations for corrective action if it can’t be handled locally with available resources. I have conducted inspections and/or surveys for a regulatory body as part of a team. I have conducted inspections and/or surveys for a regulatory body independently or as a team lead or supervisor. I have worked with local regulatory body surveyors/Inspector to resolve outstanding regulatory issues for a ship(s) I am responsible for. I have worked with senior regulatory body officials to resolve fleet level issues for ships I am responsible for. I have transferable skill and experience ensure ships, ship’s equipment and completed repairs comply with standards other than US Coast Guard and American Bureau of Shipping (e.g., US Navy Standards). I have do not have experience ensuring compliance with standards applicable to ships. 18 [70500] Select the statement below that best describes your experience monitoring contractor performance.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I participated in oversight of contractors. I have monitored contractor performance against established quality standards or contract specifications and provided reports to supervisor or management. I have developed quality standards as part of a statement of work or contract. I have developed a formal quality assurance or quality assurance surveillance plan. I have provided quality assessments to the contract manager/officer for resolution of contract performance. I have had little or no experience with monitoring contractor performance. 19 [70498] Select the statement that describes your experience with computer software and computerized maintenance tracking systems. Answer to this question is required I have basic proficiency in using standard office software such as Microsoft Outlook, Word, and Excel. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits as well as experience with collaborate computer tools such as Microsoft Teams, Zoom, and SharePoint. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have specific experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking systems such as AMOS, SAM, or ABS Nautical Systems. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have specific experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking and specific experience with ABS Nautical Systems. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have transferal skill with computerized maintenance tracking systems not directly related to ship maintenance. I have no experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking system. Grade: 13 1 [342] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [70515] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) for ship operations, maintenance and repair of U.S. Flag ships including major shipyard availabilities and drydocks, application of regulatory body (i.e., American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), United States Coast Guard (USCG), etc.) vessel requirements, and implantation of international maritime standard and regulations? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [70516] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience managing and providing oversight of technical elements of ship repair and maintenance including preparing schedules and budgets, ensuring compliance of contract requirements and regulatory standards, and provide analysis and recommendations to senior management concerning schedule and cost and risk of on-going work? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [70517] Do you have at least one year of equal or equivalent experience managing and providing oversight of technical elements of ship repair and maintenance including preparing schedules and budgets, ensuring compliance of contract requirements and regulatory standards, and providing analysis and recommendations to senior management concerning the schedule, cost, and risk of on-going work? This experience must be well documented in your resume. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [70485] Choose the statement that best describes your experience applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships to commercial standards. Answer to this question is required I have education and training applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships to commercial standards, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships under close supervision, review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job. Only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have applied fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job. Even in unique or unusual situations I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have supervised others in applying fundamental principles, concepts, techniques, and guidelines relative marine engineering and maintenance and repair of ocean-going US flag cargo ships as a regular part of a job and provide senior management advice and recommendations concerning these subjects. I have transferable skills and experience related to marine engineering and maintenance and repair from other than of ocean-going US flag cargo ships. I have no experience related to marine engineering and maintenance and repair from other than of ocean-going US flag cargo ships. 6 [70486] Choose the statement the best describes your experience conducting technical, operational assessment and evaluation of shipboard equipment, structures, or system. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have education and training in conducting technical, operational assessments and evaluating shipboard equipment, structures, and system, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have conducted technical and operational assessments of shipboard equipment, systems, and structures as part of a team and provided the results to others to evaluate. I have conducted technical and operational assessments and prepared evaluations of shipboard equipment, systems and structures and provided recommendations for necessary corrective actions for review by my supervisor or senior manager. I have conducted technical and operational assessments and prepared evaluations of shipboard equipment, systems and structures and made decisions for necessary corrective action, without supervision or oversight. I have no experience conducting technical and operational assessments of shipboard equipment, systems, and structures. 7 [70620] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing and/or approving ship repair packages. Answer to this question is required I have prepared repair specification for individual shipboard equipment, structures, or systems. I have prepared ship repair estimates at the individual line items level. I have prepared a complete repair package for ship repairs (less than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I reviewed and approved a complete technical package for ship repairs (less than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I have prepared a complete major technical package for ship repairs (more than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I reviewed and approved a complete major technical package for ship repairs (more than $3 million) including statement work, inspection, schedule, and quality requirements, required deliverables, and required performance period for review and approval my supervisor or management. I have no experience preparing ship repair packages. 8 [70488] Select the statements that best describes your experience conducting root cause analysis. Answer to this question is required I have the education and training to conduct root cause analysis, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have participated as a team member in conducting root cause analysis. I have independently conducted or lead a team in conducting root cause analysis. I have evaluated and recommended actions based on root cause analysis conducted by others. I have no experience conducting root cause analysis. 9 [70489] Select the statements that best describes your experience conducting studies to determine improvements and cost efficiency in ship maintenance and/or operations. Answer to this question is required I have the education and training to conduct studies to make improvements to ship maintenance and operations. I have participated as a team member in studies to determine cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have independently conducted or lead a team in studies to determine cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have evaluated and recommended actions based on studies on cost effective repairs, upgrades, equipment replacement or improvements to maintenance and/or operations of ocean-going ships. I have transferable skills from participating in or conducting engineering/technical studies not related to ocean-going ships. I have no experience conducting engineering/technical studies. 10 [70622] Select the statement that describes your experience preparing annual business plans, budgets and schedules for maintenance and operations of ocean-going ships. &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided budgetary input for the development of annual budgets for ship maintenance and/or operations. I have provided maintenance and repair schedules for inclusion of annual plans and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations. I have evaluated cost and schedule risk related to annual budgets, plans and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations. I have prepared annual budgets and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations and submitted to others for review and approval. I have reviewed and evaluated annual budgets, plans and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations and made programmatic recommendations on best utilization of funds and prioritization of work. I have reviewed and approved annual budgets, plans and schedules for ship maintenance and/or operations and made programmatic decisions on best utilization of funds and prioritization of work. I have transferable skills and experience related preparing annual budget, plans and schedules for other than ship maintenance and/or operations. I have no experience preparing annual budget, plans and schedules. 11 [70625] Select the statement that describes your experience planning for regulatory surveys/inspections and major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have participated in planning for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections. I have participated in planning for American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. I have prepared plans for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections and/or American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks and submitted to others for review and approval. I have reviewed and approved plans for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections and/or American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. I have transferable skills and experience in planning for inspections other than American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections for ship repairs and/or drydocks. I do not have experience preparing planning for inspections related to ship repairs and/or drydocks. 12 [70493] Select the statements that best describes your experience monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs such as Lube oil test and analysis, Fuel oil test and analysis and Boiler Water chemistry testing. Answer to this question is required I have collected samples and conducted test and/or submitted samples for analysis. I have supervised the collections of samples, conducting test and/or submitting samples for analysis. I have evaluated findings and/or made recommendations on taking corrective action monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs. I have reviewed and approved plans for annual American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections and/or American Bureau of Shipping Surveys and/or U.S. Coast Guard inspections during major shipyard repair and/or drydocks. I have managed shipboard testing programs or evaluating the effectiveness of shipboard testing programs. I do not have experience monitoring and evaluating shipboard test programs such as Lube oil test and analysis, Fuel oil test and analysis and Boiler Water chemistry testing. 13 [70627] Select the statement that best describes your experience preparing schedule and ad-hoc technical status reports within your organization. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided input or data to others for inclusion in scheduled and ad-hoc status reports. I prepare scheduled technical status and ad-hoc reports as a regular part of my job for review by a senior employee, supervisor, or manager. I have prepared schedule technical status and ad-hoc reports that include analysis of any programmatic risk impacts to the organizations mission, programs, or initiatives to senior managers. I have reviewed and approved scheduled technical status and ad-hoc reports, added necessary context to highlight programmatic risk and impact to the organization's mission, programs, or initiatives to senior management. I have no experience preparing technical status or ad-hoc reports. 14 [70499] Select the statement that best describes your experience participating in sea trials of ocean-going ships. Answer to this question is required I have participated in sea trials as crew member or observer with no specific duties. I have participated in sea trials actively testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the sea trial planning and actively participated in testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the management and planning of sea trials and have actively participated in testing and/or recording test parameters. I have participated in the planning and managed of sea trials, directed sea trial activities, participated in testing and/or recording test parameters, evaluated results, and made recommendations on passing or failing all or portions of sea trials. I have participated in the planning and managed of sea trials, directed sea trial activities, participated in testing and/or recording test parameters, evaluated results, and made decisions on passing or failing all or portions of sea trials. I have participated in post sea trial review of sea trial data and results and have recommended follow-on actions if necessary. I do not have experience with sea trials. 15 [70730] Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience working with credentialed US Merchant Mariners. Answer to this question is required I have held US Merchant Mariner credentials. I have worked with US Merchant Mariners as per of daily duties. I have reviewed and approved overtime request for US Merchant Mariners. I have made recommendations regarding the size and mix of US Merchant Mariners on US flag ships. I have made management decisions regarding the size and mix of US Merchant Mariners on US flag ships. I have transferable skills and expertise working with ship crews that are not credentialed US Merchant Mariners (e.g. US Navy, Army, or Coast Guard). I do not have experience working with credentialed US Merchant Mariners. 16 [70496] Select the statement that best describes your contract management experience. Answer to this question is required I have not been involved in contract management. I have assisted in the development of scopes of work or request for proposals (RFPs) for contracts and reviewed technical proposals for contracts less than $3 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs at the direction of others and reviewed technical and cost proposals for contracts less than $3 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs for contracts and been the leader responsible for review of technical and cost proposals and made recommendations on the selection of a contractor for contracts less than $3 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs at the direction of others and reviewed technical and cost proposals for contracts greater than $3 million. I have developed scopes of work/RFPs for contracts and been the leader responsible for review of technical and cost proposals and made recommendations on the selection of a contractor for contracts greater than $3 million. I have been responsible for managing all aspects of contracts greater than $3 million including preparing RFPs, establishing criteria for reviewing proposals, reviewing proposals, making recommendations on selection(s), managing contract schedules, ensuring quality products, and monitoring costs. 17 [70497] Select the statements that describes your experience ensuring compliance of ship(s) and shipboard equipment and systems and completed repairs with applicable regulatory standards for US Flag ships. Answer to this question is required I have working knowledge of regulatory standards that apply to US Flag ships such as Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) requirements, US Coast Guard (USCG) and American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) rules, procedures, and requirements. I work with regulatory standards that apply to US Flag ships as a regular part of my job. I resolve low level issues to resolve any regulatory issues and provide recommendations for corrective action if it can’t be handled locally with available resources. I have conducted inspections and/or surveys for a regulatory body as part of a team. I have conducted inspections and/or surveys for a regulatory body independently or as a team lead or supervisor. I have worked with local regulatory body surveyors/Inspector to resolve outstanding regulatory issues for a ship(s) I am responsible for. I have worked with senior regulatory body officials to resolve fleet level issues for ships I am responsible for. I have transferable skill and experience ensure ships, ship’s equipment and completed repairs comply with standards other than US Coast Guard and American Bureau of Shipping (e.g., US Navy Standards). I have do not have experience ensuring compliance with standards applicable to ships. 18 [70500] Select the statement below that best describes your experience monitoring contractor performance.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I participated in oversight of contractors. I have monitored contractor performance against established quality standards or contract specifications and provided reports to supervisor or management. I have developed quality standards as part of a statement of work or contract. I have developed a formal quality assurance or quality assurance surveillance plan. I have provided quality assessments to the contract manager/officer for resolution of contract performance. I have had little or no experience with monitoring contractor performance. 19 [70498] Select the statement that describes your experience with computer software and computerized maintenance tracking systems. Answer to this question is required I have basic proficiency in using standard office software such as Microsoft Outlook, Word, and Excel. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits as well as experience with collaborate computer tools such as Microsoft Teams, Zoom, and SharePoint. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have specific experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking systems such as AMOS, SAM, or ABS Nautical Systems. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have specific experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking and specific experience with ABS Nautical Systems. I have mid-level to advance skills with standard office software suits, collaborative computer tools and databases. Additionally, I have transferal skill with computerized maintenance tracking systems not directly related to ship maintenance. I have no experience with computerized ship maintenance tracking system. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [63478] Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C within 5 years from the closing date of this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 13 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 14 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 14.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 14.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 14.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).