Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Assistant Case Management Coordinators must possess the ability to analyze information and make recommendations in regard to policy and programs that affect other departments. They assist in developing and formulating policies, plans and/or programs to meet correctional program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended inmates for transfer to appropriate security facility; and/or I have assisted in providing inmate programming goals; and/or I have prepared progress reports using available information. I have recognized a deficiency in a program and initiated corrective action; and/or I have analyzed a variety of material and developed an improved process which was subsequently implemented; and/or I have reviewed complex cases in a short period of time and made appropriate inmate programming recommendations; and/or I have reviewed Institution Supplements and provided recommendations to update, based on changes to national policy. I have utilized the appropriate documentation to classify inmates/clients; and/or I have analyzed complete case information in concert with policy and made recommendations which resulted in further benefit to the inmate/client; and/or I have made recommendations for the development of a streamlined case management process or program. None of the above. 4 Assistant Case Management Coordinators are responsible for conveying technical information to internal and external personnel, conducting and/or participating in meetings with case managers and unit support staff. Additionally, they communicate with the inmate population, probationary office, assistant United States Attorney's office, judges, attorneys, friends, and family members of inmates. To successfully meet the requirements of this position, they must possess strong oral communication skills. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contributed case information during a unit team meeting; and/or I have assisted senior staff during formal meetings and discussions; and/or I have assisted in training new employees on routine procedures and processes; and/or I have clarified misinterpretation of policy between unit management and inmate (e.g., custody classification scoring issue). I have presented technical information to external personnel which resulted in case resolution; and/or I have served as a union or management representative on work related issues; and/or I have provided training on new case management processes or procedures; and/or I have presented or provided training to case managers or unit support staff; and/or I have resolved differences of opinions among participants during meetings; and/or I have resolved serious conflicts between staff and inmates before it could be escalated to a higher level. I have instructed a class using an established curriculum or lesson plan; and/or I have presented a speech during Institutional Familiarization, Annual Refresher Training or institution recall; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to achieve desired results; and/or I have resolved issues between unit management and inmates. None of the above. 5 Assistant Case Management Coordinators interpret written materials and communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner in order respond to external correspondence received, assist in the development of Institution Supplements, and prepare case reports. They are also responsible for reviewing work prepared by others and must possess the ability to proofread and correct grammatical errors to correspondence prior to forwarding for the executive level signature. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded in writing to inquiries received from internal sources; and/or I have prepared informational memorandums requiring minor corrections; and/or I have responded to routine Inmate Requests to Staff Member (Cop-Out). I have prepared progress reports which contained appropriate conclusions and recommendations; and/or I have created technical correspondence which was accepted with minor grammatical changes/editing; and/or I have proofread/edited Community Corrections Center halfway house packets, Central Inmate Monitoring System Clearances, Transfer packets to ensure actions are within policy/regulations. I have prepared technical reports that were used by upper management; and/or I have prepared complex executive level correspondence such as judicial inquires or congressional responses; and/or I have routinely been sought out by others to review/edit written correspondence prior to forwarding to supervisor; and/or I have written an article that appeared in a technical or professional journal/newsletter. None of the above. 6 Assistant Case Management Coordinators assist in overseeing the case management program areas to ensure that agency personnel are following established guidelines and regulations. They must possess a comprehensive understanding of the current philosophy, guidelines, and policies regarding inmate programs, including but not limited to: inmate classification, discipline, visitation, correspondence, administrative remedies, Parole Commission regulations, and drug abuse programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted initial classifications and effectively managed a caseload; and/or I have recommended programs to offenders or clients based on individual needs and available resources; and/or I have participated in an operational review or internal audit. I have made recommendations to parole commission or outside agency personnel which modified an inmate’s supervision requirements and aftercare provisions; and/or I have reviewed transfer packets and furlough recommendations prepared by others as an acting Case Management Coordinator or Unit Manager; and/or I have made objective decisions based on knowledge of policies and inmate needs; and/or I have provided significant input which led to the improvements of local procedures; and/or I have participated on a Program Review of Case/Unit management functions. I have conducted release programs; and/or I have conducted client/inmate screening; and/or I have monitored the Central Inmate Monitoring System and the Victim Notification System information. None of the above. 7 Assistant Case Management Coordinators must effectively allocate time for multiple projects, and establish priorities for all case management functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled initial classifications for inmates/clients; and/or I have utilized a database to track and prioritize work/caseload; and/or I have participated in a Unit Disciplinary Committee hearing. I have maintained an individual workload while routinely assigned in an acting capacity; and/or I have exceeded internal or policy dictated deadlines on assignments; and/or I have adjusted or changed priorities to complete last minute or emergency assignments; and/or I have performed multiple collateral duties in addition to regular job functions. I have initiated the timely processing of referrals and/or transfer requests; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).