Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees performing cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees who perform cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees who perform cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees who perform cleaning, trash removal, or delivery tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 2 Do you have experience leading a diverse team in recycling, trash removal, and cleaning operations of large facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the name of the certification(s) and the date(s) the certification was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list the name of the certification(s) and the date(s) the certification was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 Which of the following written documents do you have experience preparing: Answer to this question is required Daily email correspondence to employees, peers, and management Incident Reports Cleaning Reports Performance Evaluations Letters of counseling Quality checklists None of the above 6 Which Laborer tasks have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Loaded and unloaded hand trucks Performed maintenance on equipment Set Up and arranged committee/conference rooms Assisted trade craftsmen with construction projects Removed ice and snow from building steps and entrances Moved furniture and equipment Delivery of collection containers Sort a variety of recycled materials such as books, copper, brass, recycled newspapers, bottles, or cans None of the above 7 Do you have experience performing cleaning, delivery, or trash removal tasks according to a schedule? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience cleaning rooms or offices containing expensive or fragile items. Answer to this question is required I have cleaned public areas (e.g., hallways, bathrooms). I have cleaned rooms that contain personal items as part of team / with hands-on supervision (e.g., hotel rooms, offices). I have independently cleaned rooms that contain personal items. I have independently cleaned rooms that contain expensive or fragile items (e.g., jewelry, artifacts). None of the above. 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience reading work orders or requests for cleaning services. Answer to this question is required I have independently read and interpreted work orders to complete cleaning tasks. I have verified cleaning tasks required by a work order with a supervisor after reading a work order. I have received assistance from a senior employee to read and interpret work orders. None of the above 10 Which tasks have you performed to move items safely? Answer to this question is required Balanced boxes on a cart or dolly Maneuvered items on uneven flooring surfaces Maneuvered items through narrow openings Moved items in areas with a large number of people None of the above 11 Do you have experience lifting, carrying, and/or moving objects weighing up to 100 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.