Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers; and/or I have I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. I have led co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training new workers; and/or I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, an Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisor must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to possible careers in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have completed the interview process for a position in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have submitted an application to vacancy announcement for a position dealing with inmates at a correctional facility; and/or I have attended a law enforcement career fair; and/or I have completed a college course in corrections, law enforcement, or other related field. I have Supervised an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have obtained a degree in criminology or other related area; and/or I have worked in a correctional facility; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization. None of the above. 5 Functioning at the journeyman level of the trade, the Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisor supervises inmate crews responsible for the repair and operation of utility systems and equipment. Systems which may be present include but are not limited to; steam producing boilers, condensate return systems, fire pumps, feedwater systems and sewage filtering and monitoring systems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, with direction, from plant foreman or an onsite supervisor completed simple task; and/or I have performed routine maintenance; and/or I have operated utility systems equipment but needed assistance for jobs that required the application of new knowledge; and/or I have prepared estimates for routine repairs. I have worked as a journey level stationary engineer, wastewater plant operator or as a commercial or industrial heating, ventilation, and air conditioning mechanic; and/or I have organized work assignments, regarding utility systems such as air conditioning, heating, water supply, sewage, and electricity generation and distribution systems; and/or I have documented formal training on various systems. I have worked as an apprentice in a steam boiler plant, co-generation plant, or as a residential heating ventilation and air conditioning mechanic; and/or I have performed common jobs on my own initiative and judgement, without special advice; and/or I have repaired and operate utility systems using own judgement; and/or I have made estimates of labor, costs, and materials to complete repairs; and/or I have inspected and reported on routine contract repair work and minimal supervision. None of the above. 6 Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisors must have the ability to do the theoretical, precise, and/or artistic work of the trades. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned, laid out, set up, and carried through all phases of complete jobs which are rated as difficult in the trade; and/or I am knowledgeable and have applied new development in trade practices; and/or I have experience in properly sizing pump equipment; and/or I have installed utility systems equipment in compliance with state codes. I have monitored utility systems equipment for proper operation; and/or I have prepared simple sketches for repairs; and/or I have performed tasks as assigned. I have worked from prints, plans, sketches, specifications, and oral instructions; and/or I have prepared tools and fixtures or materials to facilitate work; and/or I have placed new ideas into practice; and/or I have adhered to trade standards; and/or I have experience starting and stopping utility systems equipment according to proper procedures; and/or I have scheduled appropriate maintenance associated with utility systems. None of the above. 7 Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisors must have the ability to use the measuring instruments of the trades, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning, plumbing carpentry, concrete, masonry and miscellaneous construction trades. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used basic measuring instruments but need assistance using more complex ones; and/or I have used pumps, valves, regulators, gauges, etc. for a boiler operation; and/or I have performed complex instruments used in various trades. I have used instruments to make adjustments to the operating parameters to improve operation of steam producing boilers, chillers, domestic water pumps, duties without assistance from others; and/or I am skilled in operating a boiler plant and all related equipment including routine start-up procedures on refrigerator equipment. I have used instruments; and/or I have solved difficult problems related to the trades; and/or I have used instruments requiring precision to maintain or repair utility equipment. None of the above. 8 Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions/interpret specifications such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under supervision, I have used manuals, blueprints, and drawings; and/or I have prepared simple blueprints and rough sketches; and/or I have interpreted work orders and completed common repairs. I have read, interpreted, and followed manuals that are used to operate and repair utility systems; and/or I have prepared blueprints and estimates with occasional supervision; and/or I have determined kind and quality of materials to be used in repairs. I have provided training to others on proper procedures on changes in manuals and complex blueprints and drawings; and/or I have experience preparing detailed blueprints; and/or I have determined materials for complicated repairs. None of the above. 9 Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisors must have the ability to use and maintain an assortment of tools, instruments, and equipment in the performance of task related to several task in this job. The Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisor should be familiar with tools and have the ability to recognize unsafe or abnormal tool usage.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently performed repairs on utility systems, air conditioning systems, boilers and or maintained water treatment plants; and/or I have selected tools/equipment in order to perform preventive maintenance on auxiliary equipment. I have used standard tools under close supervision to maintain utility systems; and/or I have operated and/or performed minor repairs on utility systems; and/or I have determined appropriate tools for common repair jobs; and/or I have supervised special work details of inmates utilizing tools. I have experience as a trades person in the daily use of common hand and power tools in the performance of maintenance and repair jobs; and/or I have used a variety of tools (choosing the right tool for the job) to complete assignments without supervision; and/or I have referred to manufacture instructions to ensure tools were used properly and safely. None of the above. 10 Utility Systems Repairer Operator Supervisors work assignments include corrective and preventive maintenance of boilers, chillers, feed water pumps, cooling towers, well water pumps, auxiliary steam systems emergency generators and repair/replacement of gauges and meters. They are responsible for the ordering and purchasing of all material/equipment needed to perform assigned projects. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interpreted specifications; and/or I have provided expertise in the materials used in construction, repair, and maintenance work; and/or I have defined specific technical properties of materials needed; and/or I have made substitutions of material as needed without sacrificing quality. When necessary, I have chosen acceptable substitutions for material, etc.; and/or I have chosen and worked with a wide range of materials commonly used in construction; and/or I have assessed and chosen adequate substitutions for materials not readily available. I have chosen certain proper material or making substitutions; and/or I have worked with the more common materials used in construction or maintenance repair; and/or I have chose, common materials and made substitutions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).