Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and&nbsp;educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 2 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. 3 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, and meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Specialty Clinic Coordinators must have extensive knowledge of nursing care principles, practices and procedures and be able to apply it therapeutically to meet patient needs, enhance quality of care, and improve patient outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned, implemented and evaluated nursing care; and/or I have analyzed patient outcomes to determine effectiveness of interventions; and/or I have assimilated quality management data into the planning and development of nursing care; and/or I have performed nurse care surveys as prescribed by the Joint Commission and initiated corrective actions. I have coordinated multi-disciplinary teams to update treatment plans and complete corrective actions; and/or I have participated in multiple emergency situations of various categories, such as medical response teams, fire safety, disaster drills; and/or I have taught nursing care principles, practices and procedures to new nurses. I have observed and assessed patient conditions and determined the proper course of action; and/or I have administered infrequently used or special medications (i.e. chemotherapy medications, continuous IV medication infusions); and/or I have initiated an emergency response and operated special equipment. I have set-up and operated equipment (i.e., cardiac monitors, arterial lines, respirators, defibrillators, endotracheal suction equipment); and/or I have closely observed post-operative and seriously ill patients for adverse conditions and reactions; and/or I have provided emergency treatment to accident victims or provided resuscitative measures. I have provided minor yet comprehensive treatment to less serious illnesses or injuries; and/or I have managed nasal-pharyngeal and gastric suction as well as a variety of other drainage tubes; and/or I have assisted nurses in executing doctors' orders and oversaw the work of assistants, LPN's and student nurses; and/or I have implemented holistic patient care procedures as outlined in the patient care plan; and/or I have reported and/or documented patient responses to nursing care; and/or I have initiated and maintained intravenous therapy. None of the above. 5 Specialty Clinic Coordinators must be able to communicate effectively with a variety of people to exchange information and enhance training/career development. Contacts include, but are not limited to Bureau staff, community and professional organizations, training centers, and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to staff regarding changes in the patient's treatment plan; and/or I have provided information to other health care providers during a multi-discipline treatment meeting; and/or I have directed nursing staff on ways to present patient information to family. I have presented highly technical orientation program for staff regarding new equipment, procedures, policy; and/or I have instructed peers on technical changes or advances in medical/nursing field; and/or during Nursing conferences/meetings, I have contributed highly technical program information in developing the nursing program. I have instructed and taught nursing staff regarding performance of daily duties; and/or I have communicated and taught patients pertaining to their individual medical needs; and/or I have reported medical or correctional issues to supervisors and management. None of the above. 6 Specialty Clinic Coordinators must have comprehensive knowledge of ambulatory nursing, pre- and post-operative care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted unit meetings or training sessions; and/or as a charge nurse or team leader, I have facilitated instruction and adjusted patient care; and/or I have provided information in an emergency or crisis situation; and/or I have provided information to staff on immediate patient concerns and changes in treatment. I have conveyed information at conferences with health care officials, at public health forums, or with officials in private organizations; and/or I have given presentations at nursing conferences; and/or I have taught college courses to nursing students; and/or I have taught Basic Life Support in the community; and/or I have served as a facilitator at a public meeting. I have supervised care plans in an Outpatient/Ambulatory Clinic, Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU) or Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU); and/or I have developed and coordinated care plans for ambulatory, pre and post-operative patients; and/or I have provided staff and patient education for implementation of care plans. None of the above. 7 Specialty Clinic Coordinators must have the ability to identify and assess inmates' needs within a correctional facility. They will coordinate with other departments to determine appropriate healthcare plans or case management objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored equipment function, scheduled repairs, and maintained stock par levels; and/or I have scheduled internal and external consultant appointments and provided appropriate follow up with consultant recommendations; and/or I have coordinated tele-health program(s). I have coordinated and monitored inmate/patient secured movement via bus/airlift/ambulance to medical referral centers or medical facility; and/or I have provided feedback to supervisor regarding compliance with national policy and necessary modifications to local policy or procedures. I have performed daily operational checks of equipment and troubleshoot malfunctions; and/or I have checked par levels and identified discrepancies; and/or I have collected information needed for consultant visits, scheduled inmates/patients for clinics and/or chronic care appointments. I have ensured appropriate follow-up was done, provided escorts and operated tele-health equipment; and/or I have assisted with preparations for coordinating movement by locating records and/or medical supplies to ensure transfer of inmates/patients are transferred timely; and/or I have performed updates of local policy with instruction from or review by Health Services Administrator. I have performed daily checks of equipment and documented discrepancies; and/or I have stocked treatment room and reported shortages to supervisor as assigned; and/or I have made necessary scheduling adjustments for clinic or placed inmates on call-outs for appointments, identifying no-shows and taking action to find inmates. I have initiated in-transit forms and routed to appropriate clinical and administrative staff prior to medical trips or transfers; and/or I have reviewed policy annually as required. None of the above. 8 Specialty Clinic Coordinators must have the ability to assess patients' needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan, managed a care plan, or case management objectives in a hospital or clinical setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed, planned, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and sub-acute beds for patients with multi-system organ failure, such as end stage liver disease, respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure; and/or I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management; and/or I have developed individualized patient care plans based upon assessments, policies, guidelines, and standards of practice. I have reviewed patient care plans and ensured that corrective actions were initiated; and/or I have completed a quality review of policies and procedures for care and treatment; and/or I have conveyed treatment team goals to obtain optimal patient compliance; and/or I have recognized patient deviations from normal and provided appropriate treatment and follow-up; and/or I have incorporated concepts of preventive health into an assessment of patient needs and patient education; and/or I have revised a plan of care based upon assessment of patient needs. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (i.e., a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have reported changes with patient status based upon observations and assessments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).