Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A doctoral degree in Pharmacy that is recognized by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. OR Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree, Ph.D., Pharm.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. AND B. Licensure: Applicants also must be licensed to practice pharmacy in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Experience: Applicant&rsquo;s qualifications background must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary to perform the work of the position. Pharmacy work requires knowledge of the use, clinical effects, and composition of medications, including their chemical, biological, and physical properties. Qualifying professional pharmacy experience may involve, but is not limited to: Dispensing medications prescribed by physicians and other health practitioners and providing information to health practitioners and patients about proper usage of medications and side effects; Evaluating medication use patterns and outcomes for patients in hospitals or managed care organizations; Performing administrative, consultative, or staff advisory work for a medical facility&rsquo;s pharmacy program; Planning, monitoring and evaluating medication programs or regimens; Establishing medication-handling procedures for the storage and preservation of medications; Researching medical literature and/or clinical medication information to provide accurate responses to inquiries; and/or Maintaining all medication records required by law. AND D. Medical Requirement: Applicants must be able to distinguish shades of color. NOTE: Employees currently assigned to positions in this occupational series as of September 2017 will be considered to have met the basic requirements for the position occupied. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education and licensure requirement, applicants must have one year of professional pharmacy experience, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcipts and pharmacy license documentation at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Chief Pharmacists must have the ability to properly select, mix and dispense a variety of therapeutic agents.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have possessed knowledge of drugs that do not have approval for general use; and/or I have selected appropriate formula or agent from among those widely used to prepare standard compounds and dispense medication according to established trade practices mixed and dispensed routine prescriptions; and/or I have followed formulary lists; and/or I am familiar with the affects of drugs on the formulary list. I have developed special formulas, extemporaneous compounding and special preparations; and/or I have served as an authoritative consultant and advisor on known potential affects of new and/or investigational drugs; and/or I have provided expert information in side affects of any prescription or non-prescription medication; and/or I have formulated approved pharmacy medication list. I have checked all extemporaneous preparations by pharmacists; and/or I have edited, when necessary, physician orders for parenteral products; and/or I have ensured national contract compliance in accordance with the Prime Vendor (PPV) program, Veterans Administration (VA) contracts, Federal Supply Schedule (FSS), General Services Administration (GSA), and mandatory contracts; and/or I have operated autonomously in the purchasing of drugs and supplies. None of the above. 5 Chief Pharmacists must have the ability to provide advice and instructional information to patients, medical staff, and other institution personnel in pharmaceutical matters, as well as security and other areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given briefings to supervisors on sensitive issues; and/or I have guided workgroups in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have given presentations and responded to related questions; and/or I have coordinated tours and/or developed a clinical pharmacy rotation with a school of pharmacy; and/or I have conversed with others within professional/community organizations to resolve issues; and/or I have handled a difficult situation using tact and diplomacy; and/or I have resolved complex conflicts among supervisors, coworkers and/or peers. I have presented complex and/or technical information to external personnel which resulted in case resolution; and/or I have participated on agency advisory panel; and/or I have lectured to other professionals and community groups; and/or I have taught a course or presented technical information to an audience; and/or I have served as a union or management official conducting and participating in meetings. I have been responsible for instructing patients on proper consumption and storage of prescriptions; and/or I have recommend procedural changes, (e.g., informed supervisor on an unusual issue and provided alternatives for resolution); and/or I have briefed probation officers on inmate case information; and/or I have solicited information from outside sources or agencies for case resolution; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other internal departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered. None of the above. 6 Chief Pharmacists must have knowledge of the procedures, duties and responsibilities involved in managing a full service Pharmacy Program in an outpatient clinic setting. Regular recurring tasks require a knowledge of a wide variety of pharmaceuticals, and understanding the role the pharmacy plays in the overall health care program.&nbsp; Tasks require knowledge of proper record‑keeping maintaining adequate inventories, estimating budget requirements and maintaining security of controlled pharmaceutical items. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have estimated and submitted budgets; and/or I have been responsible for ordering, storing and dispensing medications; and/or I have served in an advisory capacity on matters related to pharmacy operations; and/or I have maintained strict daily inventory of all controlled substances; and/or I have performed quarterly narcotic audits; and/or I have maintained strict compliance with the American Correctional Association (ACA) and other accrediting agencies. I have managed day to day pharmacy operations of the medication delivery system; and/or I have managed Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee; and/or I have coordinated pharmacy inpatient, outpatient, parenteral pharmacy programs with all other departments; and/or I have integrated pharmacy services with the overall Improving Organizational Performance (IOP) of the overall Health Services program; and/or I have provided logistical solutions to pharmacy services for satellite facilities, detention centers, camps, WitSec units, administrative detention and disciplinary segregation; and/or I have served as gatekeeper of the Agency National Formulary to include involvement in local non-formulary request process; and/or I have ensured all medications were properly packaged and labeled; and/or I have ensured a profile existed for all medication orders and assured there were no contraindications; and/or I have worked as a pharmacist in charge or pharmacy director in a hospital pharmacy. I have worked as a staff pharmacist in charge to assist others; and/or I have worked as a team member in a large professional pharmacy environment; and/or I have worked as pharmacist in a pharmacy store franchise, independently owned pharmacy, or hospital pharmacy. None of the above. 7 Chief Pharmacists, as well as all employees working in a correctional environment, must react to crisis situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have conducted confrontation avoidance with non-compliant inmates; and/or I have used communication skills to calm a disruptive inmate; and/or I have reported a dangerous inmate to correctional staff with recommendations for managing the inmate; and/or I have trained as a hostage negotiator; and/or I have managed a staff crisis referring them to an Employee Assistance and/or counseling program. I have notified the supervisor/correctional services supervisor after detaining an inmate found picking a lock; and/or I have taken corrective action to contain a small fire; and/or I have intervened to prevent a fight between inmates; and/or I have assisted in coordinating efforts to move a critically injured inmate from housing unit to an ambulance. I have effectively calmed a volatile inmate; and/or I have, during an institution altercation or disturbance, filled an emergency prescription due to a life threatening situation; and/or I have, during an incident in the medical area, directed pharmacy staff and other medical staff on specific procedures to be taken; and/or I have participated in an escape hunt to capture escapees. None of the above. 8 Chief Pharmacist are responsible for recognizing the potential of subordinate staff, and assisting subordinates in attaining their professional goals. Additionally, he/she are responsible for providing supervision, direction, and guidance to their subordinate staff in a firm, fair, and objective manner.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have ensured work of others is completed within assigned deadlines; and/or I have reviewed pharmacy technician work for accuracy prior to issuing to patient/inmate; and/or I have assured staffing, skill, and clinical programs were appropriate to meet the pharmacy needs of the institution. I have assisted subordinate pharmacists with policy interpretations; and/or I have identified deficiencies in program operations and pharmacy services and made recommendations for needed changes; and/or I have assisted co-worker in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have offered assistance in the completion of a project. I have delegated daily tasks of a health service/pharmacy program; and/or I have prioritized work flow among available staff, making adjustments when necessary; and/or I have completed performance appraisals as a first level supervisor; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have counseled an employee on performance, provided guidance and monitored for improvement; and/or I have coordinated with vendors to provide a recurring training session on various health issues for employees (i.e., medication management, lab-monitoring, drug abuse, blood drive); and/or I have developed and monitored pharmacy orientation program for new pharmacists, technicians, physicians, PAs and nurses. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).