Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position at the journeyman level. Failure to specifically identify skills equivalent to a journeyman may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Automotive Worker Foreman must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have led workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools, and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with training of new workers. I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments, estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. None of the above. 3 In a correctional setting, the Automotive Worker Foreman must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization. I have supervised an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have stimulated interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have shown a willingness to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment (i.e., to determine necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institutions). I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. None of the above. 4 The Automotive Worker Foreman must have the ability to assemble, install, and repair componets, assemblies and systems of motorized vehicle. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have sought advice and guidance to solve issues/problems encountered; and/or I have performed at least some of the following independently: repaired generator systems, repaired electrical systems, starters and alternators, repaired multiple carburetion systems or rebuilt carburetors, repaired air-conditioning systems, and installed brake shoes, repaired hydraulic systems, completed tune-up of engines, and/or I possess one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage. I have diagnosed and overhauled automatic transmissions and drive systems (fluid couplings-automatic transmissions), bore cylinders to oversize; and/or I have successfully completed an automotive trade school; and/or I possess several types of ASE (Automotive Service Excellence) certifications; and/or, as a foreman, I have instructed other mechanics on the diagnosis and repair of automatic and manual transmissions, etc. I have performed most of the following: repaired heavy duty differential and transmissions, replaced clutch assemblies, installed new crankshaft, installed new timing chain, installed piston rings, repaired standard transmissions, repaired differentials, overhauled or rebuilt engines, removed power train assemblies and replaced seals, snaprings, bearings and gears, replaced shift forks and rails, reassembled units, rebuilt transmissions and transfer cases; and/or I possess one year of experience in automotive repair at the commercial level; and/or I possess one ASE (Automotive Service Excellence) certification; and/or I have instructed or supervised other mechanics in performing most of the tasks listed above. None of the above. 5 The Automotive Worker Foreman must have the knowledge of new and up-to-date practices in the automotive mechanic field, and the ability to use automotive trade theory in doing the more demanding or precise tasks, or in inventing new ways to do tasks that cannot be done by established procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have diagnosed difficult repair problems; and/or I have performed diversified repair jobs associated with the automotive mechanic occupation and/or I have completed an automotive apprenticeship or equivalent combination of experience and completion of some courses in automotive trade theory and trade math. I have discovered alternate components to replace standard components and make modifications to equipment to accomplish an unusual repair demand; and/or I have, when oil passages in original engine are too small, causing valve failure, independently figured out a proper degree of oversize drilling of oil passages to remedy the condition; and/or I have interpreted the results of modern diagnostic tests; and/or I have monitored and complied with all environmental rules regarding storage and disposal of hazardous materials. I have ordered parts, using catalogs and specifications; and/or I have used tools and testing equipment with assistance from supervisors, as needed; and/or I have changed a flat tire. None of the above. 6 The Automotive Worker Foreman must possess the ability to use measuring instruments in identifying the need for repair and adjustment, or in determining that tolerances and fit specifications of repaired components and assemblies have been met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used a full range of test and measuring instruments which include engine and exhaust analyzers, chassis dynamometers, test stands, dial indicators, micrometers and inside and outside calipers; and/or I have used modern emissions analysis equipment; and/or I have, as a foreman or leader, instructed other mechanics or trainees in the use of most of the measuring instruments listed in the above example. I have performed cyclic work which required the use of most of the following measuring instruments (i.e., micrometers, calipers, special feeler, and dial gauges, generator, voltage, amp testers, gear thrust, and surface gauges, test benches, and oscilloscopes); and/or I have, as a foreman or leader, instructed other mechanics or trainees in the use of most of the measuring instruments listed in the above example. I have used the following measuring devices and instruments in a working support role to a journeyman: battery-starter tester, compression gauge, vacuum gauge, condenser, magneto tester, tachometer, volt-ohm meters, dwell meters, ignition timing light, fuel analyzers, fuel gauge tester and stroboscope. None of the above. 7 The Automotive Worker Foreman must possess the ability to read, understand, and apply the content and theory of technical manuals, manufacturers specifications, trade journals, catalogs, handbooks, charts, tables, graphs, and nomographs that are pertinent to vehicle and allied mechanical equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used mechanical and electrical reference manuals (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential, air condition/electrical system specifications, manuals for power-driven accessories, electrical systems specifications, and generator alternator manuals) to make repairs and adjustments with help from a supervisor on only some of the complex problems encountered. I have used mechanical and electrical reference manuals (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential, air condition/electrical system specifications, manuals for power-driven accessories, electrical systems specifications, and generator alternator manuals) with help from a supervisor in interpretations. I have interpreted catalogs, technical manuals, bulletins, trade journals, handbooks, schematics (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential, air condition/electrical system specifications, manuals for power-driven accessories, electrical systems specifications and generator alternator manuals) to locate answers for complex mechanical and electrical problems, recommending the need for replacement due to obsolescence or kinds of replacement most desirable. I have used mechanical reference manuals (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential) to make repairs and adjustments with help from a supervisor on some of the complex problems. None of the above. 8 The Automotive Worker Foreman must possess the ability to use hand and power tools as well as portable electric pneumatic tools. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have frequently used the following tools to repair and adjust automotive accessories, drums of brake systems, etc. requiring close dimensions: wheel alignment and frame tools, front end alignment equipment, torque wrenches, impact wrenches, wheel balancers (on the car type), cylinder hone, honing machines, welding equipment, and/or brake drum lathes; and/or I have filled and scraped radii by hand to critical dimensions and blending contours on irregular shaped pieces. I have used the following tools under close supervision or in a classroom setting: wheel alignment and frame tools, front end alignment equipment, torque wrenches, impact wrenches, wheel balancers (on the car type), cylinder hone, honing machines, welding equipment, and/or brake drum lathes. I have used the following tools to perform diversified handwork in the overhaul of engines, transmissions and differentials requiring extreme caution in maintaining close dimensions: boring bars, crankshaft grinders, valve seat installer, valve seat grinder, valve refacer, and valve head seat grinders; and/or I have used and maintained exhaust analysis and fuel/air ratio analysis equipment; and/or I have extracted broken studs without altering dimensions of holes; and/or I have used portable crankshaft grinders to critical tolerances. None of the above. 9 The Automotive Worker Foreman must possess the ability to ascertain the causes of malfunction in automotive vehicles and allied equipment, ability to determine extent of needed repairs or adjustments, and ability to test repaired equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience with little or no assistance working with voltage regulators, light systems, generators, transmissions, etc. With occasional supervision, I have experience troubleshooting in a particular system when the source of trouble is obviously in that system (transmission, differential, crankshaft assembly, etc.); and/or I have the ability to use test equipment related to delicate adjustments such as stroboscope lights for testing timing. I have discovered uneven drive shaft or defective axle housing; or I have instructed other journeyman in troubleshooting voltage regulators, light systems, generators, transmissions, etc. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).