Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Medical Supply Technician must be able to collect, organize, record and communicate information relevant to purchasing, ordering, and dispensing of medical supplies and equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared in final form letter which supervisor presented in draft; and/or I have prepared standard a report from data provided by supervisor; and/or I have composed e-mail messages to office staff. I have summarized data in a report as instructed by higher level staff or supervisor; and/or I have prepared agenda for meetings using established formats and procedures; and/or I have prepared purchase request for supplies. I have drafted internal memos for co-workers; and/or I have prepared standardized reports on the status of current supplies; and/or I have drafted purchase requests for supplies. None of the above. 3 The Medical Supply Technician procure supplies from various sources, receive new supplies, check supplies delivered for shortages and breakage, record errors or damages detected, place items in proper storage locations in supply rooms and participate in periodic physical inventory of medical supply items. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted periodic inventory of medical supplies and equipment; and/or I have filled special and emergency requests for supplies; and/or I have researched and completed purchase requests for medical supplies; and/or I have stocked operating room supply cart with packs and other items requested. I have operated computer to reorder stock supplies; and/or I have maintained records of stock levels of medical supplies; and/or I have advised personnel on availability of general office supplies. I have advised medical personnel on availability of supplies; and/or I have rotated medical supplies to ensure that items were not unnecessarily wasted due to outdating; and/or I have conducted periodic inventory of general office supplies; and/or I have filled requests for medical supplies based on daily schedule of needs. None of the above. 4 Medical Supply Technicians operate and maintain sophisticated equipment and instruments, evaluate new test and instruments and modify and adapt standard methods. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed minor routine maintenance on medical equipment; and/or I have tested medical equipment for proper operation; and/or I have knowledge of care and maintenance of equipment for precise function. I have operated equipment such as cleaners and heat-sealer machines; and/or I have assisted in the set-up of common medical equipment such as hospital beds or mattresses; and/or I have tracked medical equipment within an organization. I have performed disassembly of equipment to remove gross contamination from component parts; and/or I have advised medical personnel of proper use of equipment; and/or I have dismantled, cleaned and reassembled equipment after use. None of the above. 5 The Medical Supply Technician possess knowledge of sterilization techniques required to sterilize items to preclude damage and/or destruction of supplies and equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have transported contaminated supplies appropriately; and/or I have removed carts and packages from sterilizer when cycle was complete; and/or I have labeled items to show date of sterilization and shelf life and stored items on appropriate shelves; and/or I have knowledge of the importance of clean and sterile supplies to patient care. I have examined items to ensure that gross contamination has been removed; and/or I have determined correct method for pre-sterilization; and/or I have assembled sets and trays; and/or I have aerated gas-sterilized items for correct period of time; and/or I have selected correct sterilizer medium and cycles, and operated sterilizer; and/or I have removed items from pre-sterilizers and determined type of tray or set to assemble. I have selected appropriate method of sterilization; and/or I have operated ultrasonic cleaner or washer-sterilizer; and/or I have inspected packages for indications of proper sterilization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).