Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following procurement duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering a variety of goods and services Entering procurement data into an automated system Tracking delivery of goods and services Ensuring appropriate approval for procurement orders Completing a variety of procurement forms Obtaining prices for available goods and services I have education and/or training in procurement, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in procurement 3 Which of the following tasks have you performed, on a regular basis, that demonstrates your ability to use PeopleSoft or a similar automated financial system? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Entering small purchase orders Entering requisitions Entering change orders Entering purchases with multiple funding lines Entering receiving reports Tracking payments Adding vendors Investigating "match exceptions" I have not performed any of the above tasks 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with a government purchase card? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of government purchase card principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. I have worked with a government purchase card holder to process a purchase request. I have been a government purchase card holder for less than 5 years. I have been a government purchase card holder for over 5 years. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies, implementing policies and developing policies. Answer to this question is required I have experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies, implementing policies and developing policies. I have experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies and implementing policies. I have experience interpreting and providing guidance on administrative policies. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in Federal government property and inventory? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of property and inventory principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. I have located property inventory for my office. I have completed property inventory forms for my office. I have assisted the Accountable Property Officer in annual property inventory. I have served as a Property Custodian for my department. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes the written communication you been responsible for drafting? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written policies and procedures. I have written reports. I have written email correspondence. I have written memos. I have written letters. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience using automated financial software systems and software packages? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have maintained and developed budget database systems. I have performed routine database management duties such as storing and retrieving data. I have performed complex database management tasks such as entering and balancing data. I have used automated databases to prepare data summaries for inclusion on reports on budget execution. I have maintained a database involving maintenance of quality control and data verification techniques. I have used PeopleSoft software systems in the performance of budgetary activities. I have used Microsoft Word for word processing. I have used Microsoft Excel in creating spreadsheets. I have used Microsoft PowerPoint in creating presentations. I have not done any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience in using Enterprise Resource Programming (ERP) accounting system? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in tracking and recording budget information? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in tracking and recording budget information. I have completed formal education or training in tracking and recording budget information, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have tracked and recorded budget information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee who ensured compliance with established correct procedures. I have tracked and recorded budget information as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Tracking and recording budget information has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following activities related to travel management have you performed? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have worked on Concur and/or similar travel and expense planning system. I have prepared travel authorizations and vouchers for a senior manager. I have coordinated travel for a senior manager and/or office staff. I have not performed any of the above functions 12 Have you ever worked with an automated time and attendance recording system, e.g., ADP, Kronos webTA? If yes, please check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have recorded my own personal time in an automated system. I am or have been a timekeeper in charge of validating employee time and attendance information. I have worked with administrative staff to ensure correct accounting of time and attendance. I have entered/updated employee personal information in an automated time and attendance system. I have never worked with an automated time and attendance system. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.