Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Financial Specialists must respond to inquiries, provide interpretations, and present financial reports in a clear, concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed standard cost forms and schedules; and/or I have summarized information and quantitative data for use within the office; and/or I have completed work orders; and/or I have prepared a response to an audit report for supervisor review. I have responded to general e-mail inquiries; and/or I have completed supply technician forms; and/or I have prepared inter-office memoranda. I have utilized software application to type meeting minutes; and/or I have utilized an electronic email system to respond to inquiries; and/or I have submitted draft memos for consideration. None of the above. 3 Financial Specialists must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts in maintaining day to day operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered telephone calls; and/or I have greeted visitors and provided direction; and/or I have provided routine fiscal updates to clients; and/or I have utilized public service announcement equipment for announcements. I have responded to routine telephone or inmate inquires; and/or I have verified the status of accounts with vendors; and/or I have verified consolidated submissions or basic financial information with supervisor. I have provided resolutions to routine inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have discussed issues with staff to complete routine assignments; and/or I have provided basic travel processing training to administrative support staff; and/or I have verified the status of accounts with vendors. None of the above. 4 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of financial principles to determine the accuracy of financial information submitted by subordinates and cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have checked daily accounting reports to ensure transactions were processed; and/or I have researched applicable policies or guidelines when faced with questionable accounting issues; and/or I have gathered data for team leader/supervisor. I have reviewed vendor payment for accuracy; and/or I have prepared travel settlement vouchers; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have reviewed obligations for accuracy. I have assisted supervisors in conducting an audit of the department’s accounting operations; and/or I have keyed accounting entries in accordance with established policy with direction; and/or I have totaled receipts and prepared deposits, with assistance. None of the above. 5 Financial Specialists must analyze, draw conclusions, and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed general ledger accounts for proper balances; and/or I have prepared monthly proof checks; and/or I have submitted reclassification of the Governmental Wide Accounting (GWA) account statement. I have performed basic analysis of coded data or population numbers; and/or I have maintained general budget analysis records and correspondence; and/or I have prepared analysis results for local meetings. I have prepared travel and taxi reimbursements; and/or I have assisted in preparing population reports; and/or I have assisted in the analysis of inmate account entries. None of the above. 6 Financial Specialists must apply a variety of accounting and budget policies, procedures, and other guidelines in maintaining the operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have as instructed and with assistance, coded and keyed financial data; and/or I have maintained and balanced petty cash fund with supervision; and/or I have tracked payroll and overtime expenditures. I have ensured annual external year-end reports were completed by established scheduled dates; and/or I have maintained accurate open accounts payable balances; and/or I have assisted with archiving reports as required by office protocols. I have used accounting manual to determine what items were needed to pay a bill; and/or I have reviewed simple travel vouchers for accuracy according to travel regulations; and/or I have prepared asset reconciliation entries in accordance with regulations. None of the above. 7 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have submitted information using spreadsheets or tables with automated formulas; and/or I have proofed reports for typos or miscalculations; and/or I have combined information from various reports to summarize findings. I have utilized spreadsheets to obtain financial data; and/or I have filed or distributed reports generated from automated accounting systems; and/or I have submitted data to be utilized in an automated accounting system. I have generated a general ledger to balance property and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated monthly ending reports to prepare the monthly proof checks; and/or I have generated cost reports to balance work-in-progress accounts; and/or I have generated outstanding travel advance and account receivable reports. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Financial Specialists must respond to inquiries, provide interpretations, and present financial reports in a clear, concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised memorandums and charts for internal use; and/or I have responded to email request for pay arrangements instructed by the supervisor; and/or I have updated the calendar to include scheduled meetings, and due dates for financial projects and reports; and/or I have prepared a weekly status report for internal use. I have completed standard cost forms and schedules; and/or I have summarized information and quantitative data for use within the office; and/or I have completed work orders; and/or I have prepared a response to an audit report for supervisor review. I have responded to general e-mail inquiries; and/or I have completed supply technician forms; and/or I have prepared inter-office memoranda. None of the above. 3 Financial Specialists must interact with staff, managers, and outside contacts to maintain day to day operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded to routine telephone or inmate inquires; and/or I have verified the status of accounts with vendors; and/or I have verified consolidated submissions or basic financial information with supervisor. I have provided resolutions to routine inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have discussed issues with staff to complete routine assignments; and/or I have provided basic travel processing training to administrative support staff. I have responded to inmate/staff questions and complaints; and/or I have contacted staff concerning travel or salary advances; and/or I have led a discussion in a department/staff meeting; and/or I have discussed meeting agendas; and/or I have consolidated submissions or information at a briefing. None of the above. 4 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of financial principles to determine the accuracy of financial information submitted by subordinates and cost center managers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed vendor payment for accuracy; and/or I have prepared travel settlement vouchers; and/or I have reviewed vendor invoices for accuracy; and/or I have reviewed obligations for accuracy. I have assisted with reconciling a subsidiary account to general ledger account; and/or I have developed a spreadsheet to function in support of a journal entry/general ledger account; and/or I have performed a cash reconciliation. I have checked daily accounting reports to ensure transactions were processed; and/or I have researched applicable policies or guidelines when faced with questionable accounting issues; and/or I have gathered data for team leader/supervisor. None of the above. 5 Financial Specialists must analyze, draw conclusions, and make recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared responses to audit findings; and/or I have classified financial transactions according to the appropriate general ledger account; and/or I have assisted with submitting prior period adjustments to management (i.e., accounting entries that were identified in the current fiscal year that should have been reflected in a prior fiscal year). I have prepared travel and taxi reimbursements; and/or I have assisted in preparing population reports; and/or I have assisted in the analysis of inmate account entries. I have reviewed general ledger accounts for proper balances; and/or I have prepared monthly proof checks; and/or I have submitted reclassification of the Governmental Wide Accounting (GWA) account statement. None of the above. 6 Financial Specialists must apply a variety of accounting and budget policies, procedures, and other guidelines in maintaining operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used accounting manual to determine what items were needed to pay a bill; and/or I have reviewed simple travel vouchers for accuracy according to travel regulations; and/or I have prepared asset reconciliation entries in accordance with regulations. I have reconciled and resolved general/subsidiary ledger discrepancies; and/or I have reconciled Treasury reports to ensure cash accounts were accurate; and/or I have assisted with or conducted the Fund Control reconciliation to ensure the budget was within appropriate threshold amounts; and/or I have participated as an audit team member for a program review. I have ensured annual external year-end reports were completed by established scheduled dates; and/or I have maintained accurate open accounts payable balances; and/or I have assisted with archiving reports as required by office protocols. None of the above. 7 Financial Specialists must be knowledgeable of automated accounting systems to enter accounting transactions, retrieve reports, and disseminate information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have generated a general ledger to balance property and accumulated depreciations; and/or I have generated monthly ending reports to prepare the monthly proof checks; and/or I have generated cost reports to balance work-in-progress accounts; and/or I have generated outstanding travel advance and account receivable reports. I have submitted information using spreadsheets or tables with automated formulas; and/or I have proofed reports for typos or miscalculations; and/or I have combined information from various reports to summarize findings. I have reviewed obligation reports to assist with Fund Control or ensure cost centers are not over obligated; and/or I have reviewed personal or real property reports for accuracy; and/or I have researched how source documents for entries are recorded into the automated accounting system. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).