Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please describe your experience installing, maintaining, modifying, and repairing fire alarm equipment. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which of the following competencies have you demonstrated in the performance of your duties and responsibilities as an Electronics Mechanic? Answer to this question is required Knowledge of fire protection system applications and vendor products. Ability to diagnose problems and suggest solutions for operating and repairing problems on complex fire protection systems. Skill in interpreting electronic drawings, specifications, and schematics of complex operational systems. Knowledge of the operation, capabilities, and limitations of electronic test equipment. Ability to integrate the functions of old, outdated equipment with new state-of-the-art equipment while maintaining the integrity of the entire system and its related functions. Ability to install circuit boards, analyze programs, troubleshoot, inspect, test, and maintain electronic equipment and effect repairs. I do not possess any of the above competencies. 4 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing fire alarm equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of fire alarm equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of fire alarm equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired fire alarm equipment. 5 Have you run cable to connect fire alarm devices to a fire alarm system? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which steps have you taken to troubleshoot electronic issues reported by others? Answer to this question is required Disconnecting the device Hooking up a signal level meter Looking for service quality and level Visually inspecting equipment for breaks Replacing a device Replacing a broken cable or wiring Recommending the next steps to take to an engineer None of the above 7 Which of the following fire alarm system devices have you installed? Answer to this question is required Smoke Detectors Flow Switches Tamper Switches Manual Pull Stations Beam Detectors Duct Smoke Detectors None of the above 8 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility testing fire alarm systems? Answer to this question is required I have not tested fire alarm systems. I have completed training or education related to testing fire alarm systems, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the testing of fire alarm systems. I have tested fire alarm systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently tested fire alarm systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 9 Which of the following tools have you used to test electronic equipment or systems? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Signal level meters Fiber level meters Data identifiers Signal level meters Continuity testers Radio frequency receivers Oscilloscope None of the above 10 Do you have experience in troubleshooting, installing and replacing main frame components and circuit boards? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Which electronic installation or maintenance problems have you resolved? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Retrofitted equipment to meet new AHJ requirements. Modified wiring to add new device in fire alarm loops. Performed and coordinated impairments and establish fire watches. Located ground faults on fire alarm panels. Performed diagnostic tests on amplifiers. None of the above 12 For which components have you assisted senior staff with troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required Fire alarm loops Smoke or duct detectors Sprinkler flow switches or dry sprinkler systems Disabling fire alarm zones or loops Fire pump controllers Power supplies Reading and interpreting drawings (floor plans or wiring drawings) None of the above 13 Do you have experience gathering information about electronic systems from help desk callers to create and troubleshoot work orders? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.