Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades 1 Which certifications or registrations do you hold? Answer to this question is required A Professional Engineering (PE) certification A Registered Architect (RA) certification A Certified Construction Manager (CCM) Certified Project Management Professional (PM) A Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification None of the above 2 Select the choice that best describes your experience and/or training in security infrastructure and/or critical infrastructure program management. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 3 Do you have experience managing a construction project on a facility that has multiple buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience working on a construction project that is an occupied building? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience working on a building that requires historic preservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval Justified budget expenses Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions Completed a project within budget limitations None of the above 7 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 8 Which outcomes have you achieved when resolving problems? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency and/or productivity The development and implementation of a new policy A cost-savings Complying with codes while maintaining client goals Improved customer satisfaction None of the above 9 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 10 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering a project or program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External customers and/or stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership Senior Government Officials None of the above 11 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which tasks have you performed to administer contracts? Answer to this question is required Approved invoices for payment Initiated procurement actions Wrote statements of work Accepted contractor work product Maintained procurement records Served as COTR None of the above 13 Which computer-aided drafting (CAD) software have you used to develop designs? Answer to this question is required AutoCAD MicroStation (2D) Building Information Modeling (BIM) systems (e.g., Revit) None of the above 14 Which of the following have you communicated as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Updated management on the project status. Provided recommendations for the readjustment of funds, schedules and tasks associated with the project. Communicated with local and Federal agencies to ensure that construction operations are in compliance with safety and environmental regulations and standards. Provided technical guidance to lower level employees on technical matters. None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 3 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in the following areas: (1) Providing technical recommendations/solutions to architectural/engineering problems encountered during construction projects; (2) Performing cost estimates, feasibility studies and/or constructability reviews in the construction of facilities; (3) Designing buildings and structures using established architectural criteria or specifications;&nbsp; and (4) Serving as Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent. Grade: 14 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 3 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience in the following areas: (1) Providing technical advice and having leadership for construction projects, staff, and resources, including costs, design and contractor performance; (2) Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects; (3) Applying advanced developments in building, facility, and site design in construction and physical accessibility; (4) Performing infrastructure project planning and management;&nbsp; and (5) Serving as Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.