Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 General Foremen must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, General Foremen must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e., safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems). None of the above. 5 General Foremen must be knowledgeable and have experience in various trades, such as: painting, plumbing, HVAC, carpentry, welding, masonry, general maintenance work, heating/air conditioning, pipefitting, electrical, utilities, and power plant operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have worked as a wage supervisor in one of the trades mentioned above and I have working knowledge and experience in at least three or more of the trades listed above. I have worked as a wage supervisor in one of the trades mentioned above and I have working knowledge and experience in at least two of the trades listed above. I have worked as a wage supervisor in one of the trades mentioned above and I have working knowledge and experience in at least one other of the trades listed above None of the above. 6 General Foremen must have the ability to adjust to change in technology by reorganizing, incorporating new methods, etc. They must be able to plan workloads accordingly, prototype meetings, make recommendations on accepting and rejecting new workloads, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have effectively planned work for a group or workers, including scheduling use of machines, equipment, materials, and manpower; and/or I have adjusted readily to changing conditions and emergency situations; and/or I have performed in a supervisory position as a Wage Supervisor in at least one of the relevant trades where ability to plan and coordinate work between shops is required. I have experience in shops of the relevant trades and have been responsible for planning the work for that shop; and/or I have experience in assigning workers to jobs, taking into consideration relative skills of the workers being assigned. I have an excellent record in meeting production schedules in a supervisory capacity; and/or I have been well trained in these concepts, in either formal training situation or gained these abilities through self development; and/or I have planned and organized work for a crew where judgment involved considering individual abilities. I have some experience in coordinating work between shops and supervising work in various areas; and/or I have performed satisfactorily as a foreman in at least one of the relevant trades and planned work with other shops to ensure an assignment was completed. None of the above. 7 General Foremen must have the ability to secure an agreement without causing friction, to understand the other person's position, and to resolve conflicts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have displayed the ability in working with shop personnel in resolving work and personnel problems; and/or I am able to express opinions and views without causing friction; and/or I have actively attempted to guide others in maintaining harmonious relationships in the shop. I have the ability to explain work policy and technical standards to others in a manner that they are clear and easily understood and not arouse friction in the work group; and/or I am able to work harmoniously in a team situation; and/or I have resolved most of my personnel problems independently. I have worked with other supervisors in mutually resolving manpower, equipment, and material problems with a minimum of dissension; and/or I have implemented new methods and procedures, assigned priorities, and reorganized shop workloads to ensure continuity of work flow with a minimum of confusion and conflict; and/or I use tact and diplomacy in working with others. None of the above. 8 General Foremen refer to abrupt and unexpected changes in work assignments, practices, and deadlines. These changes include changes in priorities and deadlines on short notice; crash programs; quick reaction projects; advanced completion dates, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have functioned in a supervisory position where work demands frequent changes in priorities; and/or I have performed duties where work included many frequent deadline dates, and priorities were set for my own shop. I have demonstrated the ability to adjust to changes and priorities; as a supervisor of a shop, I have ensured normal deadlines are met. I have experience as a supervisor in scheduling and setting priorities for work in several shops; and/or I have coordinated work effectively to meet deadline dates on a short notice; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to organize a shop and workers to quickly react to changes in priority of work being done. None of the above. 9 General Foremen must have the ability to solve unusual production problems and must know how to devise new methods and specialized devices and modify equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required As a supervisor, I have demonstrated the ability to adjust operations and equipment to new or unusual situations on my own initiative; and/or I have worked without fully developed guides, solving problems and contributing to design completion. I have demonstrated the ability to recognize the need for adaptations in methods, techniques, and procedures; and/or I have new or revised methods, techniques and procedures with minimum guidance; and/or I have solved normal work guidance independently. As a shop supervisor, I have performed frequent or constant modifications to equipment and work procedures in order to maintain efficient production; and/or I have suggested new ideas and/or concepts which have been adopted for use outside my shop and line of work. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).