Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which statement below best describes the capacity in which you have worked with archival or library collection management systems or databases? Answer to this question is required I have conducted research on digital materials. I have cataloged digital materials. I have conducted research and catalog digital materials. I have not worked with archival or library collection management systems or databases. 3 Which of the following describes activities that you have performed for a previous job or for-credit class related to cataloging materials in collections management work? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have searched bibliographic utilities such as OCLC to locate matching bibliographic records for monographs. I have performed copy-cataloging I have searched bibliographic utilities such as OCLC to locate authority records. I have edited recorded serials holdings information using an integrated online catalog system. I have performed original cataloging. I have searched bibliographic utilities such as OCLC to locate matching bibliographic records for serials. I have independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records. I have not conducted any of the above activities. 4 Which of the following describes your experience in collections data preparation tasks for an inventory? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with preparing collections data for an inventory. I have prepared catalog cards for data entry into the collections information system object record. I have prepared catalog cards for scanning, for attachment to the collections information system object record. I have converted data from standalone databases to PDF documents, for attachment to collections information system object records. I have entered data from Excel or a standalone database into collections information system object records. 5 Which of the following describes your experience cataloging artifacts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have regularly researched and identified artifacts as part of my job. I have regularly determined the creator or manufacturer and dated artifacts as part of my job. I have regularly documented the physical characteristics of artifacts as part of my job. I have regularly written physical descriptions of artifacts as part of my job. I have created standards and guidelines for cataloging artifacts. I have reviewed cataloging records created by other employees for accuracy and consistency with standards and guidelines. I have trained other employees to catalog artifacts. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 6 Which of the following describes your knowledge of collection information management systems to include The Museum System (TMS)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used The Museum System (TMS) collections information management system and have performed data entry and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I am familiar with other collections information management systems such as Vernon Systems (Vernon CMS) and/or KE Software (EMu Systems). I am familiar with database management software (e.g. MS SQL Server, my SQL, and MS Access). I am unfamiliar with collections information management systems and software. 7 What experience do you have using The Museum Systems (TMS) or Digital Asset Management Systems (DAMS) to manage digital media assets? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used TMS on a “read-only” basis to check images or information about an artist or object. I have been responsible for updating existing media records within TMS. I have been responsible for attaching new media records in TMS. I have been responsible for updating existing media records within a Digital Asset Management System (DAMS). I have been responsible for attaching new media records within a Digital Asset Management System (DAMS). I have work experience creating or updating media records in a collections management system other than The Museum Systems (TMS). None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience your experience using The Museum Systems (TMS) to perform records data entry and subject cataloging? Answer to this question is required I have work experience in the use of The Museum Systems (TMS) Collection Management System including records data entry and subject cataloging, but not development and description of reports. I have experience with internet interfaces providing public access to online digitization. I have work experience in the use of The Museum Systems (TMS) Collection Management System including records data entry, subject cataloging, and development of description and procedural reports. I have experience with internet interfaces providing public access to online digitization. I have work experience using an electronic cataloging system other than The Museum Systems (TMS) Collection Management System. None of the above 9 Which of the following describes your experience with professional written communication on a professional level regarding image permissions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have communicated in writing with media outlets and journalists. I have communicated in writing with outside museum professionals and academics. I have communicated in writing with editors and publishers. I have communicated in writing with commercial entities. I have communicated in writing with K-12 educators and students. I have communicated in writing with the general public. I have communicated in writing with staff members. I have no experience with professional written communication. 10 What roles have you taken in determining the policies and procedures of your work unit? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have followed the policies and procedures set by others. I have enforced the policies and procedures set by others. I have interpreted the policies and procedures set by others. I have served on a committee responsible for setting policies and procedures. I have set or changed the policies and procedures. I have not done any of the above. 11 What is your level of on the job experience ensuring that policies and procedures are properly followed? Answer to this question is required I have experience routinely monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed, proactively remained up to date on policies and procedures, and trained or advised others on proper policies and procedures. I have experience routinely monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed and proactively remained up to date on policies and procedures. I have experience occasionally monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed, and remained up to date on proper policies and procedures as needed or assigned. I have experience monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed and remained up to date on proper policies and procedures as needed or assigned. I have experience monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed. I do not have experience monitoring activities to ensure proper procedures and policies are followed. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally to provide information? Answer to this question is required I have experience giving presentations and conducting meetings for the purpose of exchanging information, responding to questions or resolving issues/problems including providing general information to co-workers and staff members, office visitors or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience conducting meetings for the purpose of exchanging information, responding to questions or providing general information to co-workers and staff members, office visitors or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers, staff members, or office visitors; or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers and staff members and office visitors. None of the above. 13 Using the following list, describe the methods you have used to communicate with others. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Facilitating meetings. Interviewing people. Discussing subject matter for which I was responsible with management, colleagues, or coworkers. Communicating results of analysis and/or evaluation of a program. Making informal or formal oral presentations to internal and external groups such as the general public, associations, study groups, etc. Presenting information to persons unfamiliar with the subject. Participating in education or training programs requiring oral presentation. Organizing and facilitating teleconferences, video conferences, meetings, or workshops. Delivering an oral presentation regarding a program related to a museum, cultural center, science center or similar setting. None of the above. 14 Which of the statements describe the oral communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have made presentations and/or provided classroom training to audiences with varied knowledge levels. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have successfully negotiated with others to resolve issues. I have successfully represented my organization in workshops or meetings. I have taken graduate level courses/training in public speaking. I have led my organization at professional seminars and events. I have not done any of the above tasks. 15 Which of the following best reflects your knowledge of cultural property and sensitivity issues related to African American communities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience with these issues. I have had education or training with these issues, but have not yet had to put my knowledge into practice on the job. I have put my knowledge of these issues into practice on the job under close supervision. I have put my knowledge of the issues into practice as a regular focus of a job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have been asked by my supervisor to train or oversee others in collections work involving these issues on a regular and recurring basis because of my thorough knowledge of these issues. 16 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of African American history and culture? Answer to this question is required I have training or coursework on African American history and/or culture. I have a general interest in African American history and/or culture. I have a degree in African American history and/or culture. I have experience working in a museum, educational, or cultural institution with an emphasis on African American history and/or culture. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.