Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts and license for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education and license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-10 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with professional health care providers and administrative personnel from institutions, Regional Offices, Central Office, and civilian health care professionals in the community. He/she provides clinical care to inmates/patients both in person and in a virtual environment. The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator provides feedback not only to the telemedicine primary provider and/or specialty consultant, but also to members of the in-house primary health care team in order to contribute to the maintenance and/or restoration of the inmate&rsquo;s health status.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed department/office staff on nursing issues; and/or I have provided training to co-workers on the implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have communicated the findings of a staff assist visit and provided recommendations for discrepancies to upper management; and/or I have reported medical or correctional issues to management; and/or I have given presentation at medical conference. I have directed nursing staff care delivery during a medical emergency, such as respiratory or cardiac arrest or trauma; and/or I have presented inmate/patient case information to higher level medical professionals; and/or I have briefed Executive Staff about specific inmate/patient medical issue(s); and/or I have verbally persuaded potentially violent inmate/patient to remain calm; and/or I have communicated time-sensitive recommendations identified during an inmate/patient’s visit to the primary care provider to ensure continuity of care in a timely manner. I have provided information to staff regarding changes in inmate/patient treatment plan; and/or I have discussed with other medical staff ways to present inmate/patient information to families; and/or I have conveyed verbal emotional support to inmate/patient prior to the beginning of treatment or educational sessions. None of the above. 5 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator provides nursing specific technical and administrative expertise to Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) staff at institutions, the Regional Offices and Central Office, as well as to various stakeholders in the planning, coordinating and monitoring of telemedicine services.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with implementing policy or standard operating procedures for a telemedicine clinic; and/or I have assisted other staff with adherence to clinical guidelines/nursing protocols; and/or I have observed and assessed an inmate/patient’s condition and determined the proper course of action; and/or I have provided administrative oversight for telemedicine clinics by assisting with the development of clinical care programs. I have under supervision, provided inmate/patient with guidance regarding plan of care or other health topics; and/or I have followed standard protocols and performed history and physical examination on inmate/patient; and/or I have identified at risk behavior of inmate/patient and advised supervisor; and/or I have implemented recommendations made by a workgroup/committee. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a telemedicine clinic; and/or I have prepared technical/complex documents regarding inmate/patient medical and/or nursing needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional equipment, nursing certification/training, at/in a telemedicine clinic. None of the above. 6 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator develops standard telemedicine clinic procedures, both locally and with national peers and leadership, to standardize Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator and telemedicine nursing practices throughout the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed internal Agency documents to facilitate inmate/patient care, policy and procedure development; and/or I have prepared inmate/patient paperwork for telemedicine clinician review and evaluation; and/or I have developed detailed clinic operations and telemedicine polices as assigned. I have prepared written response to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have written a response to an audit finding for supervisory review; and/or I have prepared inmate/patient paperwork for telemedicine clinician review and evaluation. I have assisted others in writing nursing policies and procedures; and/or I have assisted others with writing clinical encounter notes; and/or I have accurately recorded telemedicine encounters in an electronic medical record. None of the above. 7 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator has a comprehensive set of skills necessary in nursing, medical records, quality improvement, and information technology. He/she possesses strong organizational skills and is able to work autonomously, as he/she is required to exercise independent judgment and discretion on a regular and recurring basis. He/she assists with budgetary planning related to telehealth services and provides strategic financial planning by exploring ways to decrease external medical trips, analyzing the needs for specialty equipment, and converting community in-person medical visits into medical consultation via telemedicine when clinically appropriate.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others by identifying contracts currently in effect for telemedicine clinic services and advised on what additional services were required under the Statement of Work; and/or I have drafted documents for review and completion by supervisor regarding staffing or contracting needs; and/or I have compiled data from various sources and formats; and/or I have under supervisor’s direction, assisted with completing telemedicine patient assessments. I have served as telemedicine clinic lead and/or oversaw the telehealth services department activities; and/or I have served as a cost center manager; and/or I have collected information and reviewed telehealth services statistical reports; and/or I have participated on internal Agency committees focusing on improving health care services being provided; and/or I have modified or proposed/developed best practices for the telemedicine clinic environment; and/or I have assisted supervisor with budgetary planning related to telehealth services. I have assisted supervisor in determining telemedicine clinic services needed; and/or I have assisted in drafting documents detailing the scope of work for supervisor review and finalization; and/or I have assisted in compiling data from multiple sources for supervisory review and action; and/or I have participated in telemedicine patient assessments. None of the above. 8 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator develops and maintains professional relationships with multiple partners, to include inmates/patients, health care providers, and correctional leaders. He/she maintains a positive rapport with the community medical contracting facilities, primary care providers, specialists, and other telemedicine staff.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided teaching to inmate/patient who was subject to special protocols to improve compliance and documented efforts; and/or I have coordinated preparation of inmates/patients having special procedures to assure timely completion and reduce missed appointments; and/or I have identified and coordinated with others to obtain supplies or special equipment needed to implement risk mitigation protocols. I have participated in group activities or discussions related to inmates/patients with identified risks, high risk procedures or practices to reduce risks; and/or I have discussed test results and implication for treatment planning with physicians/other medical professionals; and/or I have identified a situation where the level of care provided needed change and made recommendations through appropriate supervisory chain. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have coordinated meetings with leaders of community health care facilities; and/or I have facilitated intra-disciplinary health services coordination to facilitate inmate/patient care; and/or I have initiated and performed staff training in areas related to nursing functions in a telemedicine clinic in compliance with policy; and/or I have acted as a liaison between the inmate/patient’s primary care team and telemedicine providers when questions or concerns arose once a telemedicine clinic visit was complete. None of the above. 9 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator possesses extensive nursing clinical evaluation and technical skills to utilize specialized equipment, through completion of formal training and/or hands on application of nursing skills in the telemedicine environment. He/she works with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) Information Technology (IT) and Data Support Team to identify issues with video conferencing system performance. He/she is proficient in operating different telemedicine carts and cameras, including all peripheral devices, and all telemedicine-based computer applications used in the performance of clinical assessments.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exhibited clinical evaluation/technical skills/utilization of telemedicine clinic specialized equipment; and/or I have completed training on telemedicine nursing functions and/or hands on application of nursing skills in a telemedicine clinic environment; and/or I have participated in National Continuing Education Conferences for an area of specialty/training/telemedicine; and/or I have acted as an inmate/patient advocate to ensure technology was utilized to best meet inmate/patient care needs; and/or I have identified and independently resolved issues with video conferencing system performance. I have applied current agency Clinical Practice Guidelines in delivering routine inmate/patient care; and/or I have identified issues with video conferencing systems; and/or I have used different types of telemedicine carts and cameras. I have advised Information Technology (IT) and Data Support Team of issues with video conferencing system performance and requested assistance to resolve; and/or I have generated reports and scheduled inmates/patients for clinic; and/or I have securely transmitted all pertinent information to the telemedicine provider prior to specified clinic date. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).