Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience (positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: Two full years of graduate education or a master&rsquo;s degree. Graduate level education must be directly related to the work of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must satisfy at least one of the following conditions: Applicant maintains a current, active, and unrestricted certification as a National Registry Paramedic (NRP); OR Applicant maintains a current, active state Paramedic license in the state of the position being applied for.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes, I have a current, active, and unrestricted certification as a National Registry Paramedic (NRP) OR a current, active state Paramedic License in the state of the position being applied for. No, I do not possess the Selective Factors for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST upload proof of current, active and unrestricted certification as a National Registry Paramedic (NRP) OR a current, active state Paramedic license at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Paramedic must communicate and deal effectively with management, physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, peers, patients, and other individuals. He/she must be able to work and collaborate with various health care providers in order to provide the best patient care possible and communicate information during extreme emergency situations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in an emergency drill as a co-provider; and/or I have assisted with providing basic medical overview classes to non-healthcare staff (i.e., Basic First Aid, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)); and/or I have provided basic instruction for self-care of minor injuries. I have established communication to obtain information from patients for treatment; and/or I have provided instructions and obtained patients cooperation; and/or I have explained treatment in language patient understands; and/or I have directed non-medical personnel in assisting to respond to medical emergencies to assist and manage the situations. I have obtained assistance to provide care for patients; and/or I have instructed less experienced staff on the job; and/or I have made presentations to other caregivers; and/or I have provided education to patients on signs and symptoms of basic and moderately complex medical conditions. None of the above. 4 The Paramedic, who are often first responders, must be able to use a variety of life-saving medical equipment appropriately. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed endotracheal intubation or other airways (i.e., intubations, bag valve mask (BVM)); and/or I have completed electrocardiogram application, Automated Electronic Defibrillator (AED) use, or manual cardioversion/defibrillators; and/or I have utilized suction devices; and/or I have applied air casts/splint or other immobilization equipment; and/or I have completed oxygen administration via various adjuncts; and/or I have started intravenous (IV) therapy; and/or I have routinely used diagnostic equipment such as pulse oximeter, glucose monitor and blood pressure equipment; and/or I have used or placed cricothyroidotomies, peripheral vascular access devices, central venous catheters, chest tubes, and tracheotomies. I have taken and recorded patient vital signs; and/or I have accurately determined blood pressure readings to be used by physician and para-professional staff in conjunction with other symptoms to make diagnosis determination; and/or I have trained in techniques for starting intravenous (IV) therapy; and/or I have trained in techniques in using electrocardiograms, defibrillator, and advanced life support; and/or i have observed use of life-saving trauma equipment. I have assisted with endotracheal intubation or other airways (i.e., intubations, bag valve mask (BVM)); and/or I have placed cricothyroidotomies, peripheral vascular access devices, central venous catheters, chest tubes, and tracheotomies with direction; and/or I have co-facilitated the use of air casts/splint, backboard application, or other immobilization equipment; and/or I have assisted with glucose monitoring, blood pressure application/reading, and pulse oximeter. None of the above. 5 The Paramedic must be able to think clearly during emergency situations and must remain calm in order to provide appropriate diagnoses and treatment for medical or surgical emergencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed triage and directed less experienced staff regarding patient disposition; and/or I have treated most seriously injured and performed advanced cardiac life support (ACLS)/advanced trauma life support (ATLS); and/or I have treated medical emergencies such as heat strokes; and/or I have provided first treatment to stab victims or gunshot wounds; and/or I have managed complex emergency births. I have provided basic life support (BLS) and described responses in order to route medical emergency; and/or I have provided first aid to fracture until transported to medical facility; and/or I have performed uncomplicated births (deliveries); and/or I have treated heat-related disorders. I have observed advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) and treatment of trauma victims; and/or I have treated simple dehydration; and/or I have administered over-the-counter (OTC) oral medication; and/or I have treated cuts, abrasions, strains, and sprains. None of the above. 6 The Paramedic must be able to assess the condition of a large number of patients such as in a massive tragedy situation and provide appropriate treatment. He/she must assess the level of seriousness and level of priority for each patient. He/she must be able to identify patients with multiple medical problems and modify care accordingly. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taken and recorded blood pressure of patient; and/or I have, during disaster drills, when presented with a scenario from physicians, described how to assess the patient; and/or I have described plan of action and course of treatment. I have identified, evaluated, and provided urgent care for patients with underlying problems and multiple medical conditions; and/or I have assessed and treated multiple trauma victims/patients; and/or I have identified and treated patients with multiple medical problems who present urgent medical needs; and/or I have modified care to accommodate other conditions such as picking an appropriate drug to administer to an asthma patient who is also taking several heart medications. I have identified specific problems but referred to another practitioner for resolution; and/or I have conducted triage and prioritized patient’s conditions for treatment; and/or I have recognized common cardiac symptoms and was able to provide appropriate medical interventions for complaint. None of the above. 7 The Paramedic must calculate dosages required and administer medication by mouth, subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular, or intravenous methods. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have described how to use training and education to identify adverse medication reactions, and appropriate responses; and/or I have calculated dosage for patients based on age/weight; and/or I have administered medication, primarily oral route in routine situations on a frequent basis. I have assisted in calculating medication dosage; and/or I have assisted in identifying adverse medication reactions; and/or I have, in training scenarios, administered medication according to regulations. I have administered medication by multiple routes on a frequent or daily basis; and/or I have administered high risk medication and monitored for side effects; and/or I have identified adverse medication reactions and initiated appropriate response measures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 Previous law enforcement experience or Veterans Preference: Answer to this question is required I have previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position covered by special retirement provisions and will provide an SF-50 as proof of such service at the time I apply, OR I am a qualified preference eligible. I have NOT previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position; AND I am NOT a preference eligible. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Human Resources Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Social Media (Linkedln, Twitter, etc.) Other 8 Which of the following factors listed below influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Please select 1-5 answers. Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP 9 Which of the following factors listed below was the single most important factor that influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP Not addressed above Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).