Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must be a current certified Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) Firearms Instructor. All applicants MUST submit proof of their current certification as a Firearms Instructor. 2 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND I have submitted my training record which documents my current certification as a Firearms Instructor. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Firearms Instructor must communicate with various levels of management, institution departments, individual staff, and groups of students.&nbsp; He/she present courses of instruction utilizing a variety of lecture techniques and tools including group discussions, role playing, practical exercises, audio/visual aids, and handouts.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented overview of program area; and/or I have spoken with individuals in a community service group; and/or I have spoken with members from a citizen volunteer group; and/or I have answered inmates questions regarding rules and regulations. I have taught classes with established lesson plans; and/or I have utilized Microsoft programs for presentation or other computer software to present training; and/or I have counseled students and staff concerning performance; and/or I have made recommendations to management regarding new instructional programs; and/or I have presented new information to management and staff. I have given presentations in college; and/or I have participated in group discussions to establish consensus or a plan of action; and/or I have completed public speaking course in college or junior college; and/or I have worked as a teacher’s aide in any educational environment. None of the above. 6 The Firearms Instructor communicate in writing with a variety of people, including management, at all levels of the organizational hierarchy, as well as individuals external to the organization. In order to convey information effectively, he/she must be able to communicate clearly to a target audience.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have, as instructed, prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written routine office procedures; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for others to proofread/edit. I have proofread and modified existing lesson plans; and/or I have created lesson plans as a member of a group or committee; and/or I have updated instructional program statement to conform with policy changes; and/or I have developed proposed student testing procedures; and/or I have created reports, proposals, and draft statements which address specific program needs and were accepted and forwarded to a higher organizational level; and/or I have provided detailed memoranda for supervisor approval. I have completed progress reports; and/or I have written incident reports; and/or I have written performance log entries; and/or I have prepared employee performance appraisal. None of the above. 7 The Firearms Instructor must have extensive knowledge of various methods of teaching and be able to use this knowledge to instruct and motivate students.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught at a youth summer camp; and/or I have instructed recreational events involving several teams; and/or I have coached a sports or recreational program. I have instructed a literacy program/peer tutor group; and/or I have led group counseling; and/or I have educated inmates or staff; and/or I have coached and mentored an organized sports or recreational program for youth groups or adults with learning disabilities; and/or I have taught in a primary level educational environment; and/or I have directed teachers/students as a school guidance counselor. I have completed a college-level instructor skills program; and/or I have provided training in more than a single subject matter area at the collegiate or national agency training level; and/or I have taught or provided educational instruction in a secondary level educational environment. None of the above. 8 The Firearms Instructor must have extensive knowledge Federal Prison System policies and procedures regarding institution operation and control.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized written policy in day-to-day duties; and/or I have learned Bureau of Prisons (BOP) security procedures; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of policies relating to a very limited or specialized program area; and/or I have worked as a member of a committee to improve emergency preparedness or institutional supplements; and/or I have worked as a member of an American Correctional Association (ACA) committee; and/or I have participated in operational review of a correctional facility. I have participated in program and operational reviews of Bureau of Prisons (BOP) correctional facilities; and/or I have served as resource staff for Bureau of Prisons (BOP) or other training programs in Management and Specialty Training Center (MSTC)/Institution based/Staff Training Academy (STA); and/or I have developed post-orders or recommended changes to any Bureau of Prisons (BOP) security procedures which were approved and implemented locally. I have reviewed or interpreted policies; and/or I have developed a familiarity with Bureau of Prisons (BOP), Department of Justice (DOJ), and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) procedures; and/or I have provided policy, directive, or regulation information to reviewers during an operational review or comparable internal audit. None of the above. 9 The Firearms Instructor must have extensive knowledge of the various firearms used by the Federal Prison System, including how and when they are used, and of safety procedures as they relate to the use of firearms.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a hunter’s safety course; and/or I have received instructions about shooting range’s policies and rules; and/or I have referred to owner’s manual before cleaning or disassembling gun. I have completed a firearms instructor program; and/or I have worked as a line officer on occasion; and/or I have applied basic maintenance and malfunction repair of weapons; and/or I am able to field strip and clean weapons; and/or I have completed firearms instructor course in military. I have attended advanced firearms instructor program; and/or I have worked as a line safety officer under the direction of the range officer; and/or I have ensured weapons, munitions, and targets were ready for class; and/or I have assisted lead instructor in providing training; and/or I have instructed firearms course to military personnel. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must be a current certified Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) Firearms Instructor. All applicants MUST submit proof of their current certification as a Firearms Instructor. 2 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND I have submitted my training record which documents my current certification as a Firearms Instructor. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Firearms Instructor must communicate with various levels of management, institution departments, individual staff, and groups of students.&nbsp; He/she present courses of instruction utilizing a variety of lecture techniques and tools including group discussions, role playing, practical exercises, audio/visual aids, and handouts.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught a formal instructional program to diverse groups; and/or I have developed lesson plans for training programs; and/or I have worked with community-based organizations or committees tasked with recommending solutions to educational problems; and/or I have implemented new instructional programs to increase student participation; and/or I have given presentations to school systems regarding educational issues; and/or I have facilitated large meetings/training; and/or I have persuaded students to participate in volunteer programs; and/or I have served as keynote speaker at graduation ceremony or conference. I have taught classes with established lesson plans; and/or I have utilized Microsoft programs for presentation or other computer software to present training; and/or I have counseled students and staff concerning performance; and/or I have made recommendations to management regarding new instructional programs; and/or I have presented new information to management and staff. I have given presentations in college; and/or I have participated in group discussions to establish consensus or a plan of action; and/or I have completed public speaking course in college or junior college; and/or I have worked as a teacher’s aide in any educational environment. None of the above. 6 The Firearms Instructor communicate in writing with a variety of people, including management, at all levels of the organizational hierarchy, as well as individuals external to the organization. In order to convey information effectively, he/she must be able to communicate clearly to a target audience.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently developed lesson plans/curriculum; and/or I have written a thesis for advanced graduate or post-graduate research; and/or I have written a detailed article for a published newspaper; and/or I have written a paper for a professional or academic group; and/or I have developed an instructional program statement; and/or I have prepared instructional evaluation program; and/or I have prepared a detailed report summarizing the results of a project. I have proofread and modified existing lesson plans; and/or I have created lesson plans as a member of a group or committee; and/or I have updated instructional program statement to conform with policy changes; and/or I have developed proposed student testing procedures; and/or I have created reports, proposals, and draft statements which address specific program needs and were accepted and forwarded to a higher organizational level; and/or I have provided detailed memoranda for supervisor approval. I have completed progress reports; and/or I have written incident reports; and/or I have written performance log entries; and/or I have prepared employee performance appraisal. None of the above. 7 The Firearms Instructor must have extensive knowledge of various methods of teaching and be able to use this knowledge to instruct and motivate students.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed a graduate-level practicum which included the application of instructor skills in more than one area; and/or I have provided training instruction in two or more subject matter areas at the collegiate or national agency training level; and/or I have served as a certified instructor for a law enforcement/firefighter/crisis management training academy; and/or I have taught or provided adult educational instruction in a college-level educational environment; and/or I have completed the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) lead firearms instructor training course; and/or I have provided re-certification of certified instructors. I have instructed a literacy program/peer tutor group; and/or I have led group counseling; and/or I have educated inmates or staff; and/or I have coached and mentored an organized sports or recreational program for youth groups or adults with learning disabilities; and/or I have taught in a primary level educational environment; and/or I have directed teachers/students as a school guidance counselor. I have completed a college-level instructor skills program; and/or I have provided training in more than a single subject matter area at the collegiate or national agency training level; and/or I have taught or provided educational instruction in a secondary level educational environment. None of the above. 8 The Firearms Instructor must have extensive knowledge Federal Prison System policies and procedures regarding institution operation and control.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized written policy in day-to-day duties; and/or I have learned Bureau of Prisons (BOP) security procedures; and/or I have demonstrated knowledge of policies relating to a very limited or specialized program area; and/or I have worked as a member of a committee to improve emergency preparedness or institutional supplements; and/or I have worked as a member of an American Correctional Association (ACA) committee; and/or I have participated in operational review of a correctional facility. I have participated in program and operational reviews of Bureau of Prisons (BOP) correctional facilities; and/or I have served as resource staff for Bureau of Prisons (BOP) or other training programs in Management and Specialty Training Center (MSTC)/Institution based/Staff Training Academy (STA); and/or I have developed post-orders or recommended changes to any Bureau of Prisons (BOP) security procedures which were approved and implemented locally. I have provided institutional operational support as institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have developed program statements or Institution Supplements which outlined or delineated security procedures; and/or I have developed training aids/lesson plans regarding Bureau of Prisons (BOP) security procedures; and/or I have recommended changes to any security procedure which were approved and implemented on the national level. None of the above. 9 The Firearms Instructor must have extensive knowledge of the various firearms used by the Federal Prison System, including how and when they are used, and of safety procedures as they relate to the use of firearms.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed other firearms instructors in new procedures; and/or I have provided remedial training to staff who initially failed to qualify a course of fire; and/or I have emphasized importance of sight alignment trigger control in basic marksmanship; and/or I have instructed staff in advanced firearms courses such as Basic Prisoner Transportation (BPT), stress courses, stun-gun. I have completed a firearms instructor program; and/or I have worked as a line officer on occasion; and/or I have applied basic maintenance and malfunction repair of weapons; and/or I am able to field strip and clean weapons; and/or I have completed firearms instructor course in military. I have attended advanced firearms instructor program; and/or I have worked as a line safety officer under the direction of the range officer; and/or I have ensured weapons, munitions, and targets were ready for class; and/or I have assisted lead instructor in providing training; and/or I have instructed firearms course to military personnel. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).