Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Recycling Technician must meet and deal with people of differing backgrounds and behavioral patterns. They deal with a variety of individuals including assigned inmates, co-workers/other staff, institution management, equipment and commodities vendors and representatives, contractors, and staff from other institutions. The Recycling Technician interacts with people of varying backgrounds in order to plan and coordinate work, provide policy guidance, advise or train, and convey available services of the Recycling Program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given instructions on the proper way to handle machinery used; and/or I have clarified the Emergency Contingency Plan for the institution; and/or I have used the safety manual to provide basic responses to questions pertaining to safety related issues; and/or I have conducted a facility tour for a small group of new staff; and/or I have given an oral presentation during a department meeting or staff recall; and/or I have answered routine inquiries received from internal personnel. I have issued safety handbooks and answered basic questions; and/or I have given instructions on the proper use of protective work gear; and/or I have provided clarification on how to safely perform duties related to recycling equipment; and/or I have updated co-workers on a new process; and/or I have conveyed technical specialty information to others; and/or I have provided specific instructions to an inmate work detail; and/or I have presented personnel orientation to new staff; and/or I have given orientation instructions to new inmates. I have given a lecture to persuade, convince and encourage voluntary compliance by management and staff on new recycling procedures or safety rules/procedures; and/or I have served as contact person for entities in the local community that have partnerships with the institution for processing recyclable materials or equivalent; and/or I have served as a staff advisor concerning recycling methods and procedure to include preparation of materials, sorting and shipping methods; and/or I have conducted training sessions for staff during scheduled meetings; and/or I have trained staff on recycling policies and procedures; and/or I have facilitated a safety-related training session during Institution Familiarization, Admission and Orientation, or New Employee Orientation; and/or I have coordinated delivery schedules; and/or I have resolved outstanding discrepancy with vendor/client, resulting in the receipt of merchandise or appropriate credit. None of the above. 3 The Recycling Technician must be able to analyze, interpret and apply a wide range of information in order to prepare correspondence and complex technical reports in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with drafting a memorandum to staff members relaying recycling or safety information; and/or I have assisted with typing various inspection reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing informational memorandums. I have submitted safety or environmental reports to central and regional offices; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information related to a recycling or safety issue; and/or I have prepared weekly status reports; and/or I have assisted in preparing graphs and charts outlining production flow status or requirements; and/or I have prepared inner-office memorandums relaying recycling or factory information; and/or I have maintained activity log on projects assigned. I have drafted memorandum to staff members relaying recycling or safety information; and/or I have prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have prepared informational memorandums; and/or I have communicated information via electronic mail; and/or I have input data into an established program or spreadsheet. None of the above. 4 The Recycling Technician must be able to plan, organize, and use time and resources effectively to coordinate the activities related to the recycling program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have inventoried and maintained supplies necessary to keep recycling program continuously operating; and/or I have monitored the scrap metal collection and storage areas; and/or I have maintained and accounted for recycling program files and records in accordance with policy; and/or I have made recommendation on the long range planning of recycling programs that promote a safe environment for employees and inmates, etc.; and/or I have established and maintained a tracking system for the recycling program; and/or I have planned and organized the operation for a recycling program. I have assisted with inventorying and maintaining supplies necessary to keep recycling program continuously operating; and/or I have assisted with maintaining and accounting for recycling program files and records in accordance with policy; and/or I have assisted in establishing and maintaining a tracking system for the recycling program; and/or I have assisted with the planning and organization of recycling program operation. I have performed routine filing and maintenance of records; and/or I have prioritized incoming information and requested assistance when needed to complete assigned tasks; and/or I have collected information used in program planning and organization. None of the above. 5 The Recycling Technician must be able to direct, supervise and motivate groups of inmates from complex backgrounds and cultures.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have escorted inmates to call outs, as instructed; and/or I have performed official and unofficial counts according to policy, through the workday; and/or I have assisted inmates in resolving problems; and/or I have worked as a dormitory officer. I have monitored subordinates/inmates to determine if they followed instructions; and/or I have provided feedback on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided assistance to lower-level staff in resolving problems. I have approved the work assignments of inmates; and/or I have prepared and discussed performance log entries with inmate workforce; and/or I have trained cooperative inmates in proper work procedures; and/or I have supervised an inmate work detail in collection, sorting, and bundling of recyclable materials; and/or I have provided Annual Refresher Training and Inmate Admission and Orientation or equivalent. None of the above. 6 The Recycling Technician must be knowledgeable of the regulations, executive orders and policies pertaining to pollution control, recycling, and environmental compliance. He/she assists in developing and identifying aspects and impacts of the activities for the recycling program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved a noted discrepancy and initiated corrective action in order to comply with policy requirements; and/or I have interpreted laws, regulations and policy relating to the recycling program; and/or I have participated in program or operational review of a safety or recycling area/department; and/or I have assisted in developing strategies to reduce toxic chemical and hazardous substances; and/or I have responded to external inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have monitored vital functions in accordance with Program Review guidelines; and/or I have assisted with programs to reduce adverse impacts to the natural environment, such as life cycle analysis, accountability, and funding policies to promote the use of pollution prevention, etc. I have responded to internal inquiries regarding program area policy and regulations; and/or I have utilized available resources to maintain currency of policy and procedures; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others to ensure policy requirements were adhered to. I have answered general program areas questions received; and/or I have maintained files in accordance with department/bureau policy; and/or I have discussed routine procedure with newly detailed inmates. None of the above. 7 The Recycling Technician must have an understanding of the operation equipment related to collecting and processing recycling materials. He/she oversees work and training concerned with receiving, handling, storing material, transporting of material, and equipment calibration of various pieces equipment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in providing group training to inmates on basic safety talks and the proper way to operate warehousing equipment, (i.e., forklift, pallet jacks, balers and hand tools); and/or I have completed research and recommended purchasing of equipment; and/or I have assisted in setting up new equipment and scheduling of maintenance schedules; and/or I have assisted the Safety Manager with the implementation of the International Organization Standardization Environmental Management Systems or equivalent. I have operated a forklift; and/or I have operated a pallet jack/baler; and/or I have provided daily guidance to inmate work detail in the area of proper equipment operation and safety issues. I have read and understood safety directions; and/or I have used hand tools and taught others how to properly and safely use tools; and/or I have guided inmate workers on how to choose appropriate tool for specific task. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).