Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience analyzing documents and advising supervisors and employees on a wide variety of employee relations cases (e.g., employee conduct / dissatisfaction problems, leave problem, reprimands, financial assistance, injuries, workers' compensation). Answer to this question is required I have experience in assisting all parties in problem definition and assessment of alternative approaches to resolving the problem. I have experience in conducting fact-finding to provide necessary context in the resolution of disputes. I have experience working with employees and identifying employees' due process rights under applicable laws and policies. I have experience representing the organization in formal administrative proceedings involving various motions, pleadings and arguments, and the negotiation of settlements. I am experienced in using the alternate dispute resolution process to negotiate and resolve issues but have not had formal training. I have experience representing the agency before the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) and other third parties. I am trained in the alternative dispute resolution process and use these principles to negotiate resolutions between parties. None of the above 4 Please identify the employee relations functions which you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial misconduct cases. I have experience in developing and implementing new or enhanced methods tailored to the agency mission and structure. I have experience developing and presenting agency case strategy before third parties. I have experience in coordinating consultations with medical and vocational rehabilitation specialists on topics such as reasonable accommodation. I have experience in resolving sensitive and controversial performance cases. None of the above 5 Please select the choice that BEST describes your experience gathering facts related to a problem or issue, analyzing them, and making supportable recommendations for resolution of the problem or issue: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to communicate ideas clearly and concisely in writing to many different types of audiences? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others on this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in negotiation techniques and I have experience in negotiating. I have no formal training or education in negotiation techniques. However, I have experience in negotiating. I have no experience, formal training, or education in negotiation techniques. 8 From the following list, select those that represent your experience in identifying and resolving issues. Answer to this question is required Work closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences. Facilitate the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives. Prepare analytical documents such as decision memos that identify policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution. Frequently review and recommend improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents. Serve on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives. None of the above 9 In which of the areas that follow have you provided advisory services on employee relations matters? Answer to this question is required Adverse actions Performance Management Conduct Performance based reduction in grade or removal Discipline Benefits Work / Life programs and services None of the above 10 Which of the following describes your level of experience providing employee relations advisory services to employees? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 Select the areas in which you have communication experience: Answer to this question is required Writing operational memorandum or instructions. Writing responses to customer inquiries. Writing justifications of decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. Presenting oral briefings for peers or customers. Participating in special team meetings on sensitive human resources issues. Delivering formal or informal training sessions. Advising management on complex or controversial HR policies and programs. None of the above. 12 Select the statement(s) that BEST describe the technical knowledge you have provided to managers and supervisors on employee relation matters. Answer to this question is required I have advised management on appropriate procedures and practices involved in developing employee performance plans, conducting appraisal interviews, and submitting and justifying employee award nominations. have identified due process rights under applicable laws, policy, and negotiated language to provide appropriate notice to both the manager and the employee about the employee`s right and possible forums for review. I have developed and presented employee relations information for briefings, meetings, conferences, or training seminars (i.e., conduct, discipline, performance management, ethics, leave and grievance procedures). I have served as a technical advisor at MSPB or EEOC hearings. I have composed detailed written documents for management to use in effecting disciplinary actions and adverse actions. I have prepared Agency case files to be submitted to MSPB. I have developed local human resources policy for employee relations. None of the above. 13 I have experience providing assistance to managers and/or employees in matters related to performance. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Please select the employee relations tasks which you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing leave restriction memos. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing proposals / notices of suspension. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing proposals / notices of removal. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing letters of reprimand. I have experience assisting and advising management in drafting and preparing letters regarding suitability determinations. I have experience in assisting and advising management on cases dealing with disciplinary and conduct issues. None of the above 15 Please describe your highest level of experience in providing management advice and guidance regarding employee conduct issues. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 16 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to conduct. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of conduct problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of conduct. None of the above 17 Which of the following describes your level of experience with the administration of Performance Improvement Plans? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.