Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions for individuals with serious mental illness.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a formal treatment unit.&nbsp; He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-facilitated a psycho-educational group for mentally ill clients; and/or I have provided clinical case management services to mentally ill clients; and/or I have completed a practicum placement or internship rotation at a site which focused on the treatment of seriously mentally ill clients. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically clients with mental illness in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to low function in offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided mental health care for patients with serious mental illness residing on an inpatient psychiatric unit. I have provided a clinical treatment program for offenders with mental illness on supervision in the community; and/or I have offered skills training on an inpatient unit for offenders with chronic mental illness; and/or I have administered a cognitive behavioral skills training for offenders with mental illness in a correctional facility; and/or I have overseen an interdisciplinary treatment team, including health services staff, for offenders with mental illness. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and evidenced-based treatment protocols.&nbsp; He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling offenders with serious mental illness.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital. I have assisted with services within a treatment program with mentally ill clients; and/or I have, as an intern, completed a rotation on an inpatient psychiatric unit which included individual/group therapy experience; and/or I have maintained a psychotherapy caseload which included seriously mentally ill clients. I have, as a practicum student, provided mental health counseling; co facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have, under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, provided individual and group psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital during a clinical practicum. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings.&nbsp; He/she must have assessment expertise specific to mental illnesses.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests to look at one dimension of a person’s psychological composition and written a report about findings. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and the preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests and passed this information on to another psychologist who interpreted results, integrated data, and wrote the report. I have, under supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, as a practicum student or intern, assisted in administering at least two of the following psychological tests: PAI, MCMI, MMPI, SASSI, ASI, SUDDS; and/or I have conducted mental status interviews of new admissions to a mental health facility; and/or I have assisted in the collection of psycho-social history information for mentally ill clients. None of the above. 10 The Specialty Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed a superior’s commands as part of a response team following a natural disaster; and/or I have used confrontation avoidance techniques as part of a response team; and/or I have co mediated a conflict. I have responded to a medical emergency and offered assistance; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center providing crisis counseling; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have used de-escalation skills to prevent a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 11 The Specialty Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the treatment of offenders with mental illness. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have regularly read journal articles related to the treatment of mental illness; and/or I have routinely completed continuing education workshops and seminars related to mental illness; and/or I have thoroughly reviewed the major textbooks in the field of intellectual disabilities. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare of a treatment protocol for offenders with mental illness; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive offender; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. 12 The Specialty Program Coordinator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate staff. I have monitored co-workers to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have provided clinical information to peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to practice Psychology at the doctoral level. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. 4 ALL applicants MUST submit full, current and unrestricted license for verification. The documentation MUST show the expiration date of the license.&nbsp; Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be knowledgeable about evidence-based treatment interventions for individuals with serious mental illness.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional population and in the context of a formal treatment unit.&nbsp; He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric medications, and the coordination of services with other institution staff.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted and administered the delivery of a skills based treatment program for offenders with mental illness; and/or I have coordinated care on an inpatient unit for offenders with mental illness in a correctional institution overseeing mental health care; and/or I have developed and delivered a skills based treatment program for chronically mentally ill patients in a forensic psychiatric hospital; and/or I have advised an institution’s psychiatric clinic by assisting a psychiatrist with mental health rounds/treatment. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically clients with mental illness in a community mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to low function in offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided mental health care for patients with serious mental illness residing on an inpatient psychiatric unit. I have provided a clinical treatment program for offenders with mental illness on supervision in the community; and/or I have offered skills training on an inpatient unit for offenders with chronic mental illness; and/or I have administered a cognitive behavioral skills training for offenders with mental illness in a correctional facility; and/or I have overseen an interdisciplinary treatment team, including health services staff, for offenders with mental illness. None of the above. 8 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator must have expertise in conducting both individual and group cognitive behavioral psychotherapy, which must include facilitating both psycho-educational groups and evidenced-based treatment protocols.&nbsp; He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling offenders with serious mental illness.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have provided evidence based psychological treatment to offenders with mental illness; and/or I have provided individual psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital. I have provided mental health care in a day treatment facility for patients with chronic mental illness; and/or I have developed a residential treatment program for offenders with mental illness in a correctional environment; and/or I have provided individual and group psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a state psychiatric hospital. I have, as a practicum student, provided mental health counseling; co facilitated a psychotherapy group for offenders with mental illness and adjustment issues in a correctional facility; and/or I have, under the supervision of a doctoral level psychologist, provided individual and group psychotherapy to patients with mental illness in a psychiatric hospital during a clinical practicum. None of the above. 9 The Specialty Program Coordinator must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings.&nbsp; He/she must have assessment expertise specific to mental illnesses.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests to look at one dimension of a person’s psychological composition and written a report about findings. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and the preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered and scored psychological tests and passed this information on to another psychologist who interpreted results, integrated data, and wrote the report. I have administered and interpreted at least three of the following psychological tests: WAIS, Stanford Binet, GAMA, Shipley, MCMI, MMPI, PAI, SCID I, SCID II, PAS, NEO, HCR 20, SVR 20, PCL R, PCL SV, PICTS; and/or I have supervised and administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of clients with mental illness. None of the above. 10 The Specialty Treatment Program Coordinator plays an important role during emergencies in an institution, resolving conflicts, and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prevented a suicide by managing a patient who had been referred by staff; and/or I have calmed a patient who had threatened self-harm; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have consulted with staff about dealing with a patient whose behavior was continuously disruptive; and/or I have trained staff in confrontation avoidance. I have responded to a medical emergency and offered assistance; and/or I have worked in a community/university crisis center providing crisis counseling; and/or I have calmed someone who was emotionally distraught; and/or I have participated in a mock exercise of an emergency situation which involved the directing of others; and/or I have used de-escalation skills to prevent a crisis situation from escalating. I have managed suicidal clients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two patients/clients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing a patient/client whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 11 The Specialty Program Coordinator must have a knowledge of research practices and program evaluation measures.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the treatment of offenders with mental illness. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and implemented a treatment program based upon this review. I have reviewed the literature in order to prepare of a treatment protocol for offenders with mental illness; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage a disruptive offender; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular disorder or problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. 12 The Specialty Program Coordinator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical training to staff; and/or I have mentored new staff in a correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical reports of subordinate staff. I have provided clinical training, supervision and mentoring for staff in a community-based or correctional treatment program; and/or I have reviewed and approved the clinical work of staff to ensure compliance with policy and best practices; and/or I have implemented performance improvement plans as an administrator and clinical supervisor. I have provided clinical information to peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have mentored peers or subordinate staff; and/or I have reviewed clinical work of peers or subordinate staff to ensure compliance with policy standards and best practice guidelines. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).