Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have experience to work as an Electrician without normal supervision. Experience includes installing, modifying, repairing, maintaining, troubleshooting, testing, inspecting and loading new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, and associated fixtures, controls, and equipment; planning and laying out work, tracing hard-to-locate defects or problems and completing repairs and installations with little or no advice. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have the ability to do the work of an Electrician without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This position requires physical exertion such as long periods of standing, walking, bending, stooping, reaching, crawling; and lifting and carrying heavy objects of 50 pounds or less. I am able to satisfy the physical requirements of this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have a valid State or District of Columbia driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you included a copy of your Drivers&rsquo; License (Front &amp; Back) and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following types of electrical equipment do you have experience performing preventive maintenance? Answer to this question is required Single Phase Motors Electrical Controllers Three Phase Motors Fans/Air Handlers Electrical Heaters Household, Industrial and Shop equipment Variable Frequency Drive None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have intermediate knowledge and minimal experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have basic knowledge and have assisted electricians with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have extensive knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment as a regular part of the job. 8 Which of the following life-safety systems do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Emergency generator (50 Kvw or higher) Fire pumps Fire suppression systems Fireman’s panel None of the above 9 Do you have knowledge of the National Electrical Code? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines Auto-Cadd None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have minimal knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have extensive knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have intermediate knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. 12 Do you have working knowledge of the correct types of material and methods needed to perform electrical work using precision electric and electronic devices and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with facility electrical infrastructure (motor control center)? Answer to this question is required I have independently executed electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panel boards I have had training/education in electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panels boards I have not had experience in executing electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panel boards I have minimal experience or assisted in executing electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control centers and panels boards I have led, trained or supervised the work of others in electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control centers and panel boards 14 Which of the following best describes your electrical construction/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with electrical construction. I have assisted others in performing electrician duties in the construction field. I have independently performed electrician duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job . I have performed electrician duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. 15 Which of the following licenses do you currently possess within the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Maryland Virginia Other state None of the above 16 Which of the following types of building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 17 Which of the following best describes your highest level of trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training Master Electrician None of the above 18 Which of the following electrical drawings do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Building plans/Blueprints Wire diagrams Ladder diagrams Schematics None of the above 19 Do you have experience using work orders, diagrams, and other documentation to provide special events support? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Which of the following types of equipment do you have experience performing, as a regular part of your duties, preventive maintenance in a commercial or industrial building environment? Answer to this question is required Electrical motor control centers Lighting control systems Single and three phase motors Electrical generators and transfer switches Electrical system and wiring None of the above 21 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers). Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw). Voltage testers. Amp meter. Circuit traces. Meggars. Arial lifts (Boom lifts, bucket truck, line truck). None of the above. 22 Which of the following best describes your highest level experience performing electrical repairs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have minimal experience performing this task. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision. I have independently performed electrician repairs as a regular part of the job. 23 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with electrical system troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have minimal experience with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have worked extensively, as a regular part of my duties, electrical systems troubleshooting. I have trained others in working with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have led or supervised the work of others with electrical system troubleshooting. Grade: 11 1 Do you have experience to work as an Electrician without normal supervision. Experience includes fabricating, installing, modifying, troubleshooting specialized electrical control of monitoring systems and equipment designed to meet unique conditions associated with research and development projects. Projects are subject to extreme demands for accuracy of control motion, load sensing, etc. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have a valid State or District of Columbia driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following types of electrical equipment do you have experience performing preventive maintenance? Answer to this question is required Single Phase Motors Electrical Controllers Three Phase Motors Fans/Air Handlers Electrical Heaters Household, Industrial and Shop equipment Variable Frequency Drive None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge or experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have intermediate knowledge and minimal experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have basic knowledge and have assisted electricians with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment. I have extensive knowledge and experience with generators, low voltage switchgear, transformers and service equipment as a regular part of the job. 5 Which of the following life-safety systems do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Emergency generator (50 Kvw or higher) Fire pumps Fire suppression systems Fireman’s panel None of the above 6 Which of the following systems do you have experience operating and maintaining? Answer to this question is required Advanced lighting control systems Variable frequency drive Power monitoring systems None of the above 7 Do you have knowledge of the National Electrical Code? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Email Word Processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines Auto-Cadd None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have minimal knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have extensive knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. I have intermediate knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in shop trade practices. 10 Do you have experience with unique or undocumented electrical design systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Do you have working knowledge of the correct types of material and methods needed to perform electrical work using precision electric and electronic devices and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with facility electrical infrastructure (motor control center)? Answer to this question is required I have independently executed electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panel boards I have had training/education in electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panels boards I have not had experience in executing electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control center and panel boards I have minimal experience or assisted in executing electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control centers and panels boards I have led, trained or supervised the work of others in electrical repairs and maintenance for motor control centers and panel boards 13 Which of the following best describes your electrical construction/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with electrical construction. I have assisted others in performing electrician duties in the construction field. I have independently performed electrician duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job . I have performed electrician duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. 14 Which of the following licenses do you currently possess within the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required District of Columbia Maryland Virginia Other state None of the above 15 Which of the following types of building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 16 Which of the following best describes your highest level of trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training Master Electrician None of the above 17 Which of the following electrical drawings do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Building plans/Blueprints Wire diagrams Ladder diagrams Schematics None of the above 18 Do you have experience using work orders, diagrams, and other documentation to provide special events support? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following types of equipment do you have experience performing, as a regular part of your duties, preventive maintenance in a commercial or industrial building environment? Answer to this question is required Electrical motor control centers Lighting control systems Single and three phase motors Electrical generators and transfer switches Electrical system and wiring None of the above 20 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers). Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw). Voltage testers. Amp meter. Circuit traces. Meggars. Arial lifts (Boom lifts, bucket truck, line truck). None of the above. 21 Which of the following best describes your highest level experience performing electrical repairs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience performing this task. I have minimal experience performing this task. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision. I have independently performed electrician repairs as a regular part of the job. 22 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with electrical system troubleshooting? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have minimal experience with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have worked extensively, as a regular part of my duties, electrical systems troubleshooting. I have trained others in working with electrical systems troubleshooting. I have led or supervised the work of others with electrical system troubleshooting. 23 Which of the following systems do you have comprehensive knowledge operating and maintaining? Answer to this question is required Emergency generator system Electrical transfer switch Uninterrupted power system None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.