Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have 3 years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS &nbsp; LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess the ability to effectively manage patient care regimens, including prescribing the most effective and safe medication combinations to treat illnesses and diseases.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have routinely consulted with the Pharmacist to ensure medication is appropriate; and/or I have verified appropriateness of medication when prescribing multiple medications; and/or I have consulted with supervisor on non-traditional pharmaceutical treatment options; and/or I possess limited knowledge of non-traditional pharmaceutical treatment practices. I have regularly consulted with the Pharmacist in order to stay abreast of new medications or changes in medications, prior to prescribing medication(s); and/or I have researched any interactions that could be caused by prescribing specific medications with patient’s current medications and routinely consulted with higher level psychiatrist for assistance; and/or I have attended continuing medical education programs to increase familiarization with prescribing developments. I have frequently attended continuing education programs sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, where new medications are discussed; and/or I have replaced established medications with newly released medications (i.e., practicing “state of the art” medicine); and/or I have consulted with a physician/pharmacist when a patient’s medications do not appear to be controlling the disease, or when unexpected symptoms arise after a change in medications. None of the above. 5 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess comprehensive ability to assess the condition of patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements, or initiate requirements to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided long term care to patients in nursing homes, Veterans Administration (VA) Hospitals/Clinics, or homes for the developmentally disabled and routinely consulted with higher level psychiatrists prior to initiating treatment; and/or I have adjusted ongoing medication therapy based upon clinical response, side effect profile or lab with clinical oversight from a higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests, and formulated a differential diagnosis with consultation from a higher level psychiatrist. I have admitted patients to the hospital but frequently turned over their care to another physician/specialist; and/or I have consulted with a physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for a private sector employer; and/or I have performed medical services in an out-patient/urgent care environment. I have limited experience to one type of care such as brain injury, Alzheimer, and/or Bi-polar individuals; and/or I have utilized standard care plans, seldom using non-routine practices; and/or I have received over-sight by a more senior psychiatrist. None of the above. 6 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations.&nbsp; This knowledge is necessary in order to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care/constraints of a correctional institution health care environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I possess limited working knowledge of medical standards and regulations; and/or I have held an unrestricted state license and I am not board certified; and/or I have completed less than two years of residency/internship experience; and/or I have referred non-routine medical care to a higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have provided initial routine assessments on uncomplicated outpatients with little or no comorbid conditions. I have completed one year of internship and held an unrestricted current medical license in one state; and/or I have referenced medical textbooks for recurring medical standards determinations; and/or I have appropriately documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements. I have ordered routine tests in order to diagnose and assess appropriate care with clinical oversight from higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have completed residency training in psychiatry, including a one year internship, and held an unrestricted state license in one state, and I am not board certified; and/or I have appropriately documented in medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements with oversight from a higher level psychiatrist. None of the above. 7 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must effectively interact with physicians, staff and outside resources in order to coordinate the medical needs and care to the inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with Clinical Directors, executive staff of institutions, and with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, after reviewing a patient’s history and medical record, questioned medical students/interns/residents regarding treatment and recommendations/options; and/or I have attended regular medical meetings and presented clinical examination and test data to participants as an element in treatment planning; and/or I have routinely consulted with higher level psychiatrists to draw appropriate diagnostic conclusions and consider treatment recommendations. I have provided the status of medication changes to superiors; and/or I have sought out peers to discuss treatment options available; and/or I have, under supervisor’s review, presented, in a classroom setting, a treatment plan for an unusual psychiatric illness; and/or I have attended patient assessment meetings with a supervisor to provide basic patient update information to others. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses, or other subordinate health care professionals. None of the above. 8 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population. Other written communications may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements, and responding to various requests for information.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have dictated history, physicals, and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies, worker’s compensation cases and Social Security disability applications; and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patients to specialists which were accepted by insurance carrier. I have performed and documented routine exams; and/or I have documented exams utilizing standardized forms; and/or I have prepared documentation for the review of higher-level psychiatrist to ensure accuracy; and/or I have assisted others in collecting information for review/presentation to a governing board, court or agency. I have prepared correspondence for insurance, referral, with oversight from a higher-level psychiatrist; and/or I have prepared clear and concise basic clinical documentation regarding patient care with oversight from a higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have prepared clear clinical documentation regarding justifications for diagnostic tests or ancillary services with oversight from a higher level psychiatrist. None of the above. 9 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must be able to perform&nbsp;current and emerging techniques and procedures associated with Psychiatric medicine.&nbsp; He/she may have limitations to overcome, such as the availability of medical equipment in a&nbsp;correctional environment; however, he/she must possess the&nbsp;ability to diagnose, determine appropriate treatment, and&nbsp;perform procedures within the facility&rsquo;s scope, or establish&nbsp;procedures and relationships with community consultants to&nbsp;provide the necessary diagnostic and therapeutic services.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored patients on a regular basis including reassessment of symptoms, responses to medications, side effects from medications, therapeutic drug level monitoring where appropriate, monitoring for development of tardive dyskinesia; and/or I have performed risk assessments for thoughts, plans, and/or behaviors related to self-harm or harm towards others; and/or I have prescribed appropriate medications for the following: depression, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety disorders, and other primary psychiatric conditions with and without complicating medical conditions. I have re-assessed efficacy of outpatient treatment and current symptoms to ensure all issues were addressed with consultation from higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have performed basic outpatient assessment (i.e., psychiatric evaluation, and basic neurological examination, and treatment planning with routine consultation from higher level psychiatrist); and/or I have prescribed appropriate psychiatric medication for the following: depression, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety disorders, and other primary psychiatric conditions without complicating medical conditions. I have performed evaluations, diagnosis and treatment plans utilizing pre-established protocol; and/or I have practiced standard assessment options, limiting practice to a small range of psychiatric illnesses and treatment options; and/or I have sought assistance with more complicated/multiple diagnosis treatment plans. None of the above. Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have four years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS &nbsp; LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess the ability to effectively manage patient care regimens, including prescribing the most effective and safe medication combinations to treat illnesses and diseases.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have consulted the Physician’s Desk Reference, or other written resources prior to prescribing medications to ensure no adverse drug interactions will occur; and/or I have considered input/feedback from other medical professionals prior to prescribing medications to patients; and/or I have objectively reviewed patient requests for new medications they have seen advertised, and determined if the patient will derive any significant benefit, and where no benefit is determined by prescribing the new medication, advised patient of the reasons (i.e., interaction with other medications, significant cost to patient/insurance carrier. I have regularly consulted with the Pharmacist in order to stay abreast of new medications or changes in medications, prior to prescribing medication(s); and/or I have researched any interactions that could be caused by prescribing specific medications with patient’s current medications and routinely consulted with higher level psychiatrist for assistance; and/or I have attended continuing medical education programs to increase familiarization with prescribing developments. I have frequently attended continuing education programs sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, where new medications are discussed; and/or I have replaced established medications with newly released medications (i.e., practicing “state of the art” medicine); and/or I have consulted with a physician/pharmacist when a patient’s medications do not appear to be controlling the disease, or when unexpected symptoms arise after a change in medications. None of the above. 5 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess comprehensive ability to assess the condition of patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements, or initiate requirements to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided long term care to patients in nursing homes, Veterans Administration (VA) Hospitals/Clinics, or homes for the developmentally disabled and routinely consulted with higher level psychiatrists prior to initiating treatment; and/or I have adjusted ongoing medication therapy based upon clinical response, side effect profile or lab with clinical oversight from a higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests, and formulated a differential diagnosis with consultation from a higher level psychiatrist. I have admitted patients to the hospital but frequently turned over their care to another physician/specialist; and/or I have consulted with a physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for a private sector employer; and/or I have performed medical services in an out-patient/urgent care environment. I have, based on comprehensive patient histories and examination results, appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests, and formulated a differential diagnosis to effectively treat patients’ chief medical complaint; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted most test results independently; and/or I have identified common acute conditions reflected in blood tests, Electrocardiogram (EKG’s), and x-rays, while relying on expert interpretation to confirm preliminary impressions; and/or I have performed routine office surgery and procedures (i.e., skin biopsies and cryosurgery); and/or I possess current certification in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR). None of the above. 6 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations.&nbsp; This knowledge is necessary in order to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care/constraints of a correctional institution health care environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized treatment guidelines developed by insurance carriers or managed care organizations as the primary source of the standard of care/accepted practice; and/or I have derived standard of care/accepted practice from reading primary care journals such as American Family Physician, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), New England Journal of Medicine, or Annals of Internal Medicine; and/or I have actively participated in audits which resulted in the accreditation of the institution. I have completed one year of internship and held an unrestricted current medical license in one state; and/or I have referenced medical textbooks for recurring medical standards determinations; and/or I have appropriately documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements. I have ordered routine tests in order to diagnose and assess appropriate care with clinical oversight from higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have completed residency training in psychiatry, including a one year internship, and held an unrestricted state license in one state, and I am not board certified; and/or I have appropriately documented in medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements with oversight from a higher level psychiatrist. None of the above. 7 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must effectively interact with physicians, staff and outside resources in order to coordinate the medical needs and care to the inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with Clinical Directors, executive staff of institutions, and with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, after reviewing a patient’s history and medical record, questioned medical students/interns/residents regarding treatment and recommendations/options; and/or I have attended regular medical meetings and presented clinical examination and test data to participants as an element in treatment planning; and/or I have routinely consulted with higher level psychiatrists to draw appropriate diagnostic conclusions and consider treatment recommendations. I have discussed treatment options and calmed an upset patient facing a long/tedious recuperation period; and/or I have participated in a workgroup/taskforce to resolve medical care issues/needs of a clinic/hospital; and/or I have facilitated a training session for health care staff of a hospital/private facility/clinic on health care advances and concerns; and/or I have served as Chief of Staff in a clinic setting; and/or I have participated in Community Relations Board meetings by representing/presenting specific medical issues. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses, or other subordinate health care professionals. None of the above. 8 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population. Other written communications may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements, and responding to various requests for information.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have dictated history, physicals, and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies, worker’s compensation cases and Social Security disability applications; and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patients to specialists which were accepted by insurance carrier. I have prepared budget request package for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared responses to inquiries received regarding medical decisions made/patient care; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. I have prepared correspondence for insurance, referral, with oversight from a higher-level psychiatrist; and/or I have prepared clear and concise basic clinical documentation regarding patient care with oversight from a higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have prepared clear clinical documentation regarding justifications for diagnostic tests or ancillary services with oversight from a higher level psychiatrist. None of the above. 9 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must be able to perform&nbsp;current and emerging techniques and procedures associated with Psychiatric medicine.&nbsp; He/she may have limitations to overcome, such as the availability of medical equipment in a&nbsp;correctional environment; however, he/she must possess the&nbsp;ability to diagnose, determine appropriate treatment, and&nbsp;perform procedures within the facility&rsquo;s scope, or establish&nbsp;procedures and relationships with community consultants to&nbsp;provide the necessary diagnostic and therapeutic services.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored patients on a regular basis including reassessment of symptoms, responses to medications, side effects from medications, therapeutic drug level monitoring where appropriate, monitoring for development of tardive dyskinesia; and/or I have performed risk assessments for thoughts, plans, and/or behaviors related to self-harm or harm towards others; and/or I have prescribed appropriate medications for the following: depression, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety disorders, and other primary psychiatric conditions with and without complicating medical conditions. I have re-assessed efficacy of outpatient treatment and current symptoms to ensure all issues were addressed with consultation from higher level psychiatrist; and/or I have performed basic outpatient assessment (i.e., psychiatric evaluation, and basic neurological examination, and treatment planning with routine consultation from higher level psychiatrist); and/or I have prescribed appropriate psychiatric medication for the following: depression, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety disorders, and other primary psychiatric conditions without complicating medical conditions. I have performed Psychodynamic psychotherapy; and/or I have served as a “consultation liaison” in psychiatry; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluation of adult inpatients, including history, physical, and neurological examination, ordering and interpreting of laboratory and radiological studies; and/or I have developed treatment plans. None of the above. Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have five years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS &nbsp; LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess the ability to effectively manage patient care regimens, including prescribing the most effective and safe medication combinations to treat illnesses and diseases.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have consulted the Physician’s Desk Reference, or other written resources prior to prescribing medications to ensure no adverse drug interactions will occur; and/or I have considered input/feedback from other medical professionals prior to prescribing medications to patients; and/or I have objectively reviewed patient requests for new medications they have seen advertised, and determined if the patient will derive any significant benefit, and where no benefit is determined by prescribing the new medication, advised patient of the reasons (i.e., interaction with other medications, significant cost to patient/insurance carrier. I have reviewed medication profiles of patients on a regular basis, eliminating unnecessary medications and identified medications with potential interactions; and/or I have maximized medication compliance by simplifying regimens where possible, taking advantage of medications which can address more than one condition (i.e., an alpha blocker for a patient with both hypertension and prostate enlargement, an Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for a diabetic with high blood pressure, a beta-blocker for a patient with both hypertension and migraine). I have frequently attended continuing education programs sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, where new medications are discussed; and/or I have replaced established medications with newly released medications (i.e., practicing “state of the art” medicine); and/or I have consulted with a physician/pharmacist when a patient’s medications do not appear to be controlling the disease, or when unexpected symptoms arise after a change in medications. I have acted as a consultant to other prescribers in regards to appropriate, safe medication regimens; and/or I have intervened on a patient’s behalf when a concern about the safety or effectiveness of a medication regimen was raised by a pharmacist or another provider and provided feedback to the patient and the prescriber as to the reasons for the intervention; and/or I have interpreted and applied current evidence-based guidelines to select the safest and most effective treatment plan in regards to medications. None of the above. 5 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess comprehensive ability to assess the condition of patients and determine appropriate local treatment requirements, or initiate requirements to have the patient treated by outside medical professionals. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed comprehensive history and physical examinations appropriate to the patient’s chief complaint; and/or I have developed logical list of probable diagnosis based on patient history and examination and ordered appropriate tests in a logical order to include or exclude the most likely illness; and/or I have independently performed diagnostic and therapeutic procedures within the scope of his/her training and experience (i.e., joint injections and aspirations, skin and subcutaneous biopsies of cancerous or precancerous lesions, flexible sigmoidoscopy, flexible laryngoscopy and exercise treadmill testing). I have admitted patients to the hospital but frequently turned over their care to another physician/specialist; and/or I have consulted with a physician/specialist prior to ordering routine diagnostic tests; and/or I have conducted pre-employment physical examinations for a private sector employer; and/or I have performed medical services in an out-patient/urgent care environment. I have, based on comprehensive patient histories and examination results, appropriately ordered preliminary diagnostic tests, and formulated a differential diagnosis to effectively treat patients’ chief medical complaint; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted most test results independently; and/or I have identified common acute conditions reflected in blood tests, Electrocardiogram (EKG’s), and x-rays, while relying on expert interpretation to confirm preliminary impressions; and/or I have performed routine office surgery and procedures (i.e., skin biopsies and cryosurgery); and/or I possess current certification in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR). I have demonstrated work, certified in both Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS); and/or I have demonstrated work, certified in Advanced Trauma Life Support; and/or I have independently interpreted Electrocardiogram (EKG’s), pulmonary function tests and appropriately identified acute findings on chest, abdominal, spine and extremity x-rays to determine appropriate initial management based on these findings; and/or I possess full admission privileges in one or more hospitals to provide inpatient care consistent with his/her training and specialty. None of the above. 6 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must possess a comprehensive knowledge of medical standards and regulations.&nbsp; This knowledge is necessary in order to appropriately treat patients within the scope of care/constraints of a correctional institution health care environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized treatment guidelines developed by insurance carriers or managed care organizations as the primary source of the standard of care/accepted practice; and/or I have derived standard of care/accepted practice from reading primary care journals such as American Family Physician, Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), New England Journal of Medicine, or Annals of Internal Medicine; and/or I have actively participated in audits which resulted in the accreditation of the institution. I have completed one year of internship and held an unrestricted current medical license in one state; and/or I have referenced medical textbooks for recurring medical standards determinations; and/or I have appropriately documented medical records to satisfy billing and coding requirements. I have researched and applied current evidence-based treatment guidelines applicable to their practice; and/or I have participated in National Continuing Education conferences for area of specialty/training; and/or I have utilized knowledge of federal laws and insurance carrier rules and regulations to assure patients receive appropriate medically necessary health care, advocating for patient’s best interest when required; and/or I have provided active leadership in the development and implementation of policies and procedures for the delivery of inmate health care at the institution level that are in compliance with standards of recognized accrediting agencies, resulting in accreditation by these agencies. None of the above. 7 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must effectively interact with physicians, staff and outside resources in order to coordinate the medical needs and care to the inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with Clinical Directors, executive staff of institutions, and with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chaired a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have negotiated with managers, physicians and insurance carriers, the resolution of complex medical care issues/needs; and/or I have spoken as a keynote speaker at a medical convention or conference on a new medical treatment; and/or I have resolved disagreements between medical professionals on patient care/treatment; and/or I have presented lecture/presentation on the benefit of purchasing new medical apparatus to hospital management/administrators; and/or I have represented the facility as a member of a Community Relations Board on medical relations; and/or I have served as Chief of Staff of a hospital or large multi-specialty clinic. I have discussed treatment options and calmed an upset patient facing a long/tedious recuperation period; and/or I have participated in a workgroup/taskforce to resolve medical care issues/needs of a clinic/hospital; and/or I have facilitated a training session for health care staff of a hospital/private facility/clinic on health care advances and concerns; and/or I have served as Chief of Staff in a clinic setting; and/or I have participated in Community Relations Board meetings by representing/presenting specific medical issues. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses, or other subordinate health care professionals. None of the above. 8 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for preparing comprehensive correspondence related to medical needs and required services of the inmate population. Other written communications may include preparing responses to internal and external audits, preparing policy statements, and responding to various requests for information.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have dictated history, physicals, and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies, worker’s compensation cases and Social Security disability applications; and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patients to specialists which were accepted by insurance carrier. I have prepared budget request package for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared responses to inquiries received regarding medical decisions made/patient care; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a medical facility; and/or I have prepared technical/complex correspondence regarding patient medical needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional manpower, equipment and medical certification/training at a medical facility; and/or I have prepared and had published articles in medical journals or textbooks. None of the above. 9 The Physician (Psychiatric Physician) must be able to perform&nbsp;current and emerging techniques and procedures associated with Psychiatric medicine.&nbsp; He/she may have limitations to overcome, such as the availability of medical equipment in a&nbsp;correctional environment; however, he/she must possess the&nbsp;ability to diagnose, determine appropriate treatment, and&nbsp;perform procedures within the facility&rsquo;s scope, or establish&nbsp;procedures and relationships with community consultants to&nbsp;provide the necessary diagnostic and therapeutic services.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored patients on a regular basis including reassessment of symptoms, responses to medications, side effects from medications, therapeutic drug level monitoring where appropriate, monitoring for development of tardive dyskinesia; and/or I have performed risk assessments for thoughts, plans, and/or behaviors related to self-harm or harm towards others; and/or I have prescribed appropriate medications for the following: depression, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety disorders, and other primary psychiatric conditions with and without complicating medical conditions. I have performed Electroconvulsive therapy; and/or I have performed Cognitive Behavioral therapy; and/or I have managed inpatient acute psychiatric conditions, including seclusion and restraint, detoxification, and emergency involuntary medications; and/or I have performed assessments and reports for involuntary commitment of patients; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluations of individuals with history of substance abuse or dependence; and/or I have managed opiate dependent patients with methadone and/or buprenorphine. I have performed Psychodynamic psychotherapy; and/or I have served as a “consultation liaison” in psychiatry; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluation of adult inpatients, including history, physical, and neurological examination, ordering and interpreting of laboratory and radiological studies; and/or I have developed treatment plans. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Human Resources Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Social Media (Linkedln, Twitter, etc.) Other 6.1 Please briefly describe how you heard about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP). Maximum length of 75 characters. 7 Which of the following factors listed below influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Please select 1-5 answers. Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP 8 Which of the following factors listed below was the single most important factor that influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP Not addressed above 8.1 Please briefly describe below the important factor, which was not addressed, that influenced your decision to apply: Maximum length of 75 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).