Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of federal contracting principles** Used knowledge of federal contracting principles. This includes the following: 1) performing all aspects of procurement actions, 2) conducting market research and solicitation preparation to contract negotiation and award, 3) performing a various range of contract types and dollar thresholds, 4) having knowledge of cost and price analysis, funding requirements, and performance-based acquisition, and 5) evaluating proposals for compliance, fairness, and best value. Answer to this question is required Independently demonstrated experience in federal contracting principles by performing ALL of the above. Independently completed assigned federal contracting principles by performing THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above. Demonstrated experience in federal contracting by performing AT LEAST TWO (2) of the above None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, and procedures to develop and issue solicitations and contracts.** Applied knowledge of Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, and procedures. Answer to this question is required In a professional capacity, used knowledge of and experience interpreting complex Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, and policies to assess and execute work for federal government contracts throughout the entire acquisition lifecycle. In a professional capacity, used knowledge of and experience interpreting Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, and policies to assess and analyze contracts to support and execute work in a federal government contracting/procurement organization. In a professional capacity, used knowledge of and experience interpreting Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, and policies to provide support on contracting/procurement activities which may include serving as a COTR and/or SOW development. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote clear, accurate, and thorough written documents including: 1) plans, 2) research papers or reports, 3) business memoranda, 4) requests for information / solicitations, 5) analysis of alternatives, 6) negotiation positions, 7) selection recommendations, and/or 8) contract terms and conditions. Answer to this question is required Prepared, reviewed, and modified documents concerning contract and procurement activities, including ALL of the documents listed above. Prepared, reviewed, and modified documents concerning contract and procurement activities, including SEVEN of the documents listed above, including, 4), 7), and 8). Prepared documents concerning contract and procurement activities, including AT LEAST SIX of the documents listed above, including 4), and 8). None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 9 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).