Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) or Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree from a school approved by the American Dental Association (ADA) or&nbsp;the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND B. Applicants must have passed the National Board Dental Examinations (NBDE) which are developed and administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE) and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Applicants must have one or more full years of experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing professional dentistry work for GS-12 level and above assignments.&nbsp; AND D. Applicants must be able to distinguish shades of color. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST provide transcripts and dental license documentation to receive consideration. Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded. 2 In addition to meeting the above basic requirements, Applicants must have completed one year of full-time experience in professional dentistry work that is equivalent to the next lower grade level; or equivalent experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, and/or training.&nbsp; Do you meet the additional requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Chief, Dental Officer must have the ability to recognize dental diseases and provide appropriate professional treatment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed hemi-section of multi-rooted molars on teeth that have perio/endo lesions; and/or I have performed endodontic re-treatment or retrograde fillings on anterior teeth (abscessed with calcified canals or failed previous obturation); and/or I have performed periodontal surgery to correct osseous defects (osseous recontouring and furcation management); and/or I have performed preliminary interpretation of extra oral radiographs (facial and skull series) in assessing the trauma patient for fractures. I have diagnosed irreversible pulpititis, abscessed or necrotic molars and provide endodontic treatment using gutta percha; and/or I have managed and provided preventative care to patients who have undergone radiation therapy; and/or I have laid a flap and restored sub-gingival caries; and/or I have properly took and interpreted panoramic and occlusal radiographs. I have diagnosed and treated patients who presented with thrush; and/or I have diagnosed abscessed or necrotic bicuspid teeth and provided endodontic treatment using gutta percha, or hybrid techniques; and/or I have managed and provided preventative periodontal treatment for patients diagnosed with diabetes; and/or I have taken, mounted and interpreted full mouth radiographic series. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Dental Officer may encounter difficult patients and must utilize good communication skills in relaying and/or demonstrating proper dental care.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained the relationship of good oral hygiene and nutrition related to dental caries and periodontal disease; and/or I have explained how basic nutrition and the abstinence from tobacco and alcohol relates to good oral health; and/or I have counseled patients regarding the risk factor for oral cancer. I have instructed and developed program for patients who are mentally ill; and/or I have instructed and developed program for patients who have profound physical handicaps; and/or I have instructed and provided care for patients with closed head injuries. I have instructed and developed a program for nursing home, geriatric, patients about root caries and other related health problems; and/or I have instructed and developed a program for mildly retarded patients about oral health; and/or I have communicated and coordinated care for institutionalized and or incarcerated patients. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Dental Officer is responsible for exodontia and routine oral surgery.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed excisional and incisional biopsy; and/or I have performed excision of benign minor tumors (ex. fibroma); and/or I have performed mucosal/gingival flap procedures (can lay a full thickness flap)-mucogingival surgeries and flap management; and/or I have performed extractions on soft tissue impacted 3rd molars; and/or I have performed treatment of avulsed teeth. I have provided care for minor lacerations (suture and post-operative management); and/or I have performed incisional biopsy of oral lesions; and/or I have performed extractions on multi-rooted (molar) teeth, to include sectioning; and/or I have performed simple alveoplasty. I have removed mandibular and palatal torus; and/or I have performed hemi-section of multi-rooted molars; and/or I have performed apicoectomy; and/or I have performed extraction of partially bony impacted molar; and/or I have performed complex/multiple (serial) extractions (more than 10 teeth) and pre-prosthetic alveo- and gingivoplasty; and/or I have managed intra- and extraoral facial trauma/lacerations. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Dental Officer must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas.&nbsp; He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical supervision to another dentist seeking licensure; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established an improvement plan; and/or I have set priorities to accomplish specific tasks for subordinates; and/or I have developed a group of subordinates into a cohesive team; and/or I have enhanced a subordinates’ potential for achieving their career goals; and/or while serving as a supervisor, I have improved the performance of a department or work unit, and conducted formal employee performance evaluations; and/or I have worked with people outside of own department/work group to achieve a unit or agency goal. I have served as a leader of an organization directing others; and/or I have completed assignments in a timely fashion with minimal supervision; and/or I have served as the leader of a major project or task that involved the cooperation of others outside of their own work group. I have performed supervisory duties by serving in an acting capacity as a first line supervisor and participating in a management mentoring program; and/or I have reviewed the work of others to ensure compliance with policy and leads a work group to achieve a specific objective; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of your own workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. None of the above. 10 The Chief, Dental Officer must be able to determine patient treatment needs and select appropriate dental materials and fabricate prosthetics to restore dentition. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and delivered maxillary/mandibular partial denture (removable); and/or I have restored an edentulous space with a 3 unit fixed bridge; and/or I have provided quadrant dentistry to patients; and/or I have designed and delivered a full denture that will oppose natural dentition. I have designed and delivered an over denture on retained abutment teeth; and/or I have placed periodontal intracoronal/extracoronal splinting for stabilization (wire and composite/casting, occlusal equilibrations); and/or I have designed, selected and placed a cast or prefabricated post. I have restored existing implants and maintained these after restoration; and/or I have reestablished the vertical dimensional and occlusion in a patient requiring a fixed partial bridge or provisionals (full mouth rehab); and/or I have designed and delivered prosthetics for patients having existing precision attachments prosthetic cases; and/or I have prepared immediate complete dentures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).