Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-06 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 Which of the following describes your experience in handling and/or overseeing monographs in a library? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Shelving and stack maintenance for monographs. Checking in of monographs. Barcoding and/or labeling monographs. Assists with interlibrary loan borrowing. Processes returned materials from external institutions and libraries. None of the above. 3 Which of the following describe your experience with collection/facility maintenance tasks managed in a historical library? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have shelved rare library materials & I have stack maintenance experience. I have experience with book repair, book enclosures, and/or book bindery. I have processed lost and/or overdue items. I have bar-coded & labeled and/or dealt with barcode/labeling problems. I have identified & reported cataloging problems. I have library equipment experience (i.e. duplicating/reader-printer). I have identified & ordered supplies for the library. None of the above 4 Which of the following best represents your experience in working with bibliographic data? Answer to this question is required I have used bibliographic information to locate and retrieve books independently. I have created or edited bibliographic data in an online system independently. I have created or edited bibliographic data in an online system under close supervision. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience using integrated library systems (e.g., SIRSI/Dynix, Horizon, Voyager, Aleph, Innovative), web-based tools, and other office automation applications to provide interlibrary loan services? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had training, education, or experience using integrated library systems, web-based tools, and other office applications to provide interlibrary loan services. I have used automated systems to create and/or update patron and/or interlibrary loan records. I have used standard office automation software applications (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support resource sharing work. I have used the advanced features and capabilities of an integrated library system, bibliographic utilities (e.g., OCLC, BIP+), ILLiad, and standard office automation software (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support interlibrary loan services. I have used the basic features and capabilities of an integrated library system, bibliographic utilities (e.g., OCLC, RLIN, BIP+), ILLiad, and standard office automation software (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support interlibrary loan services. 6 Do you have experience providing reference assistance in a historical library, searching bibliographic databases in any field, overseeing circulation services, and assisting with outreach activities that promote access to library collections to include library orientations, tours, and presentations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 From the following list, select the option that best represents your experience with processing library material. Answer to this question is required Used automated system to search bibliographic records. used standard office automation software applications (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support bibliographic work. Demonstrated experience using basic features and capabilities of an integrated library system's circulation module, as well as using web-based search engines and standard office automation software (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support bibliographic work. Demonstrated extensive experience using advanced features and capabilities of an integrated library system's circulation module and using web-based search engines and standard office automation software (e.g., word processing, spreadsheets, databases) to support bibliographic work. None of the above. 8 Which of the following services have you performed on the job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have answered routine reference questions. I have assisted users with operating automated equipment. I have conducted bibliographic searches of databases. I have referred users to outside information sources. I have used a library catalog or databases to prepare bibliographies. I have verified bibliographic citations for books, periodicals, documents and other materials. I have shelved library materials. I have arranged shipping and receiving of materials. I have packed books or library materials for shipping. I have not done any of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in obtaining and monitoring the use of services, supplies, or equipment for the office? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in obtaining and monitoring the use of services, supplies or equipment. I have completed formal education or training in obtaining and monitoring the use of services, supplies or equipment, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have obtained and monitored the use of services, supplies or equipment on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have obtained and monitored the use of services, supplies or equipment as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have obtained and monitored the use of services, supplies or equipment as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.