Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 The Procurement and Property Specialist must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people in the organization, as well as with the public.&nbsp; He/she typically meet and deal with contractors, institution staff, regional office staff, local regulatory agencies, government regulatory officials, vendor representative and contractors providing services.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed procurement topics with Financial Management personnel; and/or I have obtained wage rate information from Department of Labor; and/or I have spoken to vendors to obtain routine information; and/or I have discussed with supervisor regarding the acquisition, accountability, utilization, maintenance, transfer, or disposition of controlled personal and real property. I have contacted technical staff to determine the applicability of specifications; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions/status of a purchase; and/or I have discussed purchase orders with supervisor. I have informed supervisor of issues affecting contracts; and/or I have gathered information on request for proposals; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting; and/or I have provided non-routine guidance to institution personnel in the acquisition, accountability, and disposal of all property. None of the above. 3.2 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she must be able to prepare and submit various procurement and property reports required by other agencies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented contract terminations; and/or I have prepared contract price/costs proposals; and/or I have written custom reports for the System for Award Management (SAM.gov) and SENTRY Property Management Systems; and/or I have reviewed property audit directives and designed changes to procedures or programs which prevented problems from occurring in the future. I have prepared a memorandum of understanding; and/or I have prepared requests for special authorization; and/or I have prepared documentation to close out contracts; and/or I have assisted in the evaluation, classification, reporting or final disposition of personal property. I have assisted in preparing contract price/cost proposals; and/or I have completed unauthorized commitment memos; and/or I have assisted with preparing rough drafts of Statements of Work. None of the above. 3.3 The Procurement and Property Specialists must have knowledge of procurement and property functions to administer and execute personal service contracts, non-personal service contracts, and to ensure property management controls are exercised. &nbsp;Under general supervision, he/she prepares, evaluates, and administers procurement and property actions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchase and contract actions would be competitive or sole source; and/or I have prepared purchase orders & requests for purchase; and/or I have prepared amendments; and/or I have ensured the preparation and maintenance of inventory and accounting controls related to personal and real property. I have maintained purchasing files; and/or I have prepared forms to award contracts; and/or I have demonstrated proficiency in using the System for Award Management (SAM.gov) and CCR (Central Contractors Registration). I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have issued delivery orders; and/or I have conducted a physical inspection to determine condition, classification or decision-making with respect to utilization or recommendation for declaring personal property in excess to the institution; and/or I have coordinated annual physical inventories and verifications of accountable personal and real property. None of the above. 3.4 The Procurement and Property Specialists must exercise judgment in selecting proper sources of supply and methods affecting the purchase to obligate funds and responsible for the overall property management program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with monitoring contracts; and/or I have processed proposals/quotes; and/or I have monitored requisitions for compliance with policy. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements, or other instructional/regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simplified acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method, and type of contract; and/or I have used a variety of media to keep abreast of excess or surplus property being offered for sale, donation or redistribution by the Federal Government; and/or I have assessed the needs of the Bureau of Prisons and made independent decisions to accept or forego the acquisition of property. I have followed the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have ensured proposals/quotes contained proper specifications; and/or I have reviewed contracts for compliance with regulations; and/or I have reviewed real and personal property reports and dictated corrective action when necessary and reconciled reports with accounting and other regulatory agencies. None of the above. 3.5 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization.&nbsp; He/she must have knowledge of the computerized property accountability system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program; and/or I have used SENTRY to obtain information to write a report. I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, etc.); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have created and utilized documents/forms using a variety of word processing programs. I have assisted in entering and retrieving data using spreadsheet software; and/or I have utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program including Sallyport. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: &nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 The Procurement and Property Specialist must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people in the organization, as well as with the public.&nbsp; He/she typically meet and deal with contractors, institution staff, regional office staff, local regulatory agencies, government regulatory officials, vendor representative and contractors providing services.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed procurement topics with Financial Management personnel; and/or I have obtained wage rate information from Department of Labor; and/or I have spoke to vendors to obtain routine information; and/or I have discussed with supervisor regarding the acquisition, accountability, utilization, maintenance, transfer, or disposition of controlled personal and real property. I have negotiated contracts and answered questions; and/or I have informed contractors of the status of solicitations; and/or I have negotiated on price and terms of contracts; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions of a contract; and/or I have interviewed contractors and vendors; and/or I have trained personnel in the proper methods of performing and reconciling inventories, (i.e., organizing, coordinating, and directing physical inventories of capitalized and controlled non-capitalized property). I have informed supervisor of issues affecting contracts; and/or I have gathered information on request for proposals; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting; and/or I have provided non-routine guidance to institution personnel in the acquisition, accountability, and disposal of all property. None of the above. 3.2 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she must be able to prepare and submit various procurement and property reports required by other agencies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a purchasing reference guide/handbook/instructional booklet to be used by the staff; and/or I have compiled, designed, and prepared handouts and informational material used at a conference with a vendor; and/or I have responded to inquiries from the public (i.e., prepared correspondence explaining the agency’s rules, regulations, procedures, or views on purchasing and property). I have documented contract terminations; and/or I have prepared contract price/costs proposals; and/or I have written custom reports for the System for Award Management (SAM.gov) and SENTRY Property Management Systems; and/or I have reviewed property audit directives and designed changes to procedures or programs which prevented problems from occurring in the future. I have prepared a memorandum of understanding; and/or I have prepared requests for special authorization; and/or I have prepared documentation to close out contracts; and/or I have assisted in the evaluation, classification, reporting or final disposition of personal property. None of the above. 3.3 The Procurement and Property Specialists must have knowledge of procurement and property functions to administer and execute personal service contracts, non-personal service contracts, and to ensure property management controls are exercised. &nbsp;Under general supervision, he/she prepares, evaluates, and administers procurement and property actions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchase and contract actions would be competitive or sole source; and/or I have prepared purchase orders & requests for purchase; and/or I have prepared amendments; and/or I have ensured the preparation and maintenance of inventory and accounting controls related to personal and real property. I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have issued delivery orders; and/or I have conducted a physical inspection to determine condition, classification or decision-making with respect to utilization or recommendation for declaring personal property in excess to the institution; and/or I have coordinated annual physical inventories and verifications of accountable personal and real property. I have analyzed and evaluated procurement policies and procedures; and/or I have prepared terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored pre and post award action to effectively resolve complex issues (i.e., claims, protest, performance, and delivery); and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents; and/or I have reviewed and made recommendations for improving policies for the trust fund, warehouse, laundry, or property management operations. None of the above. 3.4 The Procurement and Property Specialists must exercise judgment in selecting proper sources of supply and methods affecting the purchase to obligate funds and responsible for the overall property management program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used regulations to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish agreement between agencies; and/or I have provided information to supervisor on service & supply contracts; and/or I have maintained a comprehensive property management program consistent with the overall requirements of the SENTRY Property Management System; and/or I have provided management with information concerning property utilization and accountability to meet the requirements of the General Accounting Office, the Federal property management regulations, the Justice property management regulations and the Bureau’s Property Management Manual. I have followed the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have ensured proposals/quotes contained proper specifications; and/or I have reviewed contracts for compliance with regulations; and/or I have reviewed real and personal property reports and dictated corrective action when necessary and reconciled reports with accounting and other regulatory agencies. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements, or other instructional/regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simplified acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method, and type of contract; and/or I have used a variety of media to keep abreast of excess or surplus property being offered for sale, donation or redistribution by the Federal Government; and/or I have assessed the needs of the Bureau of Prisons and made independent decisions to accept or forego the acquisition of property. None of the above. 3.5 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization.&nbsp; He/she must have knowledge of the computerized property accountability system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, etc.); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have created and utilized documents/forms using a variety of word processing programs. I have used software programs to generate electronic mail messages to staff members; and/or I have assisted in creating a presentation using a specific presentation program; and/or I have used a database to track and project completion dates; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from mainframe or personal computer. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program; and/or I have used SENTRY to obtain information to write a report. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).