Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 12 semester hours of graduate course work specific to substance use disorders and/or mental illness. OR 12 months professional experience in counseling substance use disorders, and/or mental illness. NOTE: Applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement at the time you apply or MUST clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must learn and apply new assessment and treatment techniques. &nbsp; He/she must be able to use these techniques to develop rapport and treatment goals during counseling sessions with female inmates. &nbsp; He/she must be able to demonstrate the ability to provide counseling in either a group or individual setting. &nbsp; During group counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor behavior and facilitate the group process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have provided crisis counseling; and/or I have facilitated a group for dually diagnosed individuals; and/or I have provided individual or group counseling with full responsibility for development of treatment plans; and/or I have provided final determination for treatment plans for individuals in need of treatment; and/or I have trained others in treating patients in individual or group counseling techniques. I have, under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, provided group or individual counseling to an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have implemented individualized clinical treatment plans; and/or I have provided case management in a clinical setting; and/or I have counseled individuals with psychological problems. I have completed advanced coursework in group and individual psychotherapy that involved role plays; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychoeducational class; and/or I have observed a therapy group. None of the above. 5 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must understand the nature of adjustment issues, psychological disorders, and behavioral problems to effectively plan and implement treatment and trauma informed correctional care for the female inmate population. &nbsp; In addition, he/she must possess knowledge of the facts, concepts, principles and theories of human behavior and disorders/behavior problems and the associated psychological and social problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness for admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have performed screenings for substance use or mental health services; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine an individual’s need for support services such as medical or housing services. While under the supervision of another treatment provider I have performed comprehensive evaluations of individuals with mental health or substance use problems; and/or I have conducted structured diagnostic interviews to aid in the diagnosis of a patient; and/or I have conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment progress. I have participated in seminars on substance use disorders or mental health issues; and/or I have made referrals to treatment programs; and/or I have attended staff meetings that included treatment discussions. None of the above. 6 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must be able to demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive clinical reports for treatment planning, treatment progress reports and discharge summaries. &nbsp; These reports are often included with correspondence to the Judiciary, United States Probation, Community Based Treatment Providers and Community Corrections Centers. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings from sample cases; and/or I have developed a sample treatment plan; and/or I have written a case summary from an example case. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings; and/or I have completed draft treatment plans; and/or I have participated in training in clinical documentation; and/or I have prepared intra-office memoranda; and/or I have written clinical case presentations. I have contributed to the preparation of comprehensive psychosocial assessments used to determined specific treatment or case management needs for individuals; and/or I have, under the clinical supervision of a licensed practitioner, assisted in the development of individualized treatment plans that included problems descriptions, goal statements, and specific clinical interventions; and/or I have assisted with writing comprehensive treatment summaries for courts, community supervision agencies, or other social service organizations describing recommendations for further treatment; and/or I have documented clinical treatment contacts. None of the above. 7 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must possess strong verbal communication skills in order to provide individual and group counseling sessions to inmates, interview and perform assessments of inmates entering into the program, and explain program requirements, procedures, and treatment plans with offenders. He/she will also need to present programming to the institution administration staff and to community coalitions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an example case in class; and/or I have participated in a discussion following the observation of a clinical team; and/or I have participated in a discussion following the observation of a group session. I have presented a case to a clinical team for discussion; and/or I have delivered training in a professional workshop; and/or I have facilitated psychotherapy groups; and/or I have chaired a professional meeting or led a professional discussion group. I have taught psychoeducational classes; and/or I have participated in a professional discussion group; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy; and/or I have participated in a clinical team by providing progress updates on a patient. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 15 semester hours of graduate course work specific to substance use disorders, and/or mental illness. OR 18 months professional experience in counseling substance use disorders, and/or mental illness. NOTE: Applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement at the time you apply or MUST clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must learn and apply new assessment and treatment techniques. &nbsp; He/she must be able to use these techniques to develop rapport and treatment goals during counseling sessions with female inmates. &nbsp; He/she must be able to demonstrate the ability to provide counseling in either a group or individual setting. &nbsp; During group counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor behavior and facilitate the group process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made final determinations of treatment(s) required for patients and implemented appropriate treatment plans; and/or I have facilitated groups with oversight responsibility of program operations; and/or I have trained others in individual and group counseling techniques for offender populations; and/or I have conducted group and individual treatment using a cognitive-behavioral theoretical orientation; and/or I have facilitated a group for patients with adjustment issues associated with psychological problems such as schizophrenia, major depression, and bipolar disorder. I have provided crisis counseling; and/or I have facilitated a group for dually diagnosed individuals; and/or I have provided individual or group counseling with full responsibility for development of treatment plans; and/or I have provided final determination for treatment plans for individuals in need of treatment; and/or I have trained others in treating patients in individual or group counseling techniques. Under the supervision of a licensed psychologist, I have provided group or individual counseling to an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have implemented individualized clinical treatment plans; and/or I have provided case management in a clinical setting; and/or I have counseled individuals with psychological problems. None of the above. 5 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must understand the nature of adjustment issues, psychological disorders, and behavioral problems to effectively plan and implement treatment and trauma informed correctional care for the female inmate population. &nbsp; In addition, he/she must possess knowledge of the facts, concepts, principles and theories of human behavior and disorders/behavior problems and the associated psychological and social problems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have, while under the supervision of another treatment provider, performed comprehensive evaluations of individuals with mental health or substance use problems; and/or I have conducted structured diagnostic interviews to aid in the diagnosis of a patient; and/or I have conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment progress. I have performed comprehensive evaluations on individuals with mental health or substance use problems; and/or I have conducted structured diagnostic interviews and provided provisional mental health and substance use diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment goals and interventions. I have evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness for admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have performed screenings for substance use or mental health services; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine an individual’s need for support services such as medical or housing services. None of the above. 6 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must be able to demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive clinical reports for treatment planning, treatment progress reports and discharge summaries. &nbsp; These reports are often included with correspondence to the Judiciary, United States Probation, Community Based Treatment Providers and Community Corrections Centers.&nbsp;&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings; and/or I have completed draft treatment plans; and/or I have participated in training in clinical documentation; and/or I have prepared intra-office memoranda; and/or I have written clinical case presentations. I have contributed to the preparation of comprehensive psychosocial assessments used to determined specific treatment or case management needs for individuals; and/or I have, under the clinical supervision of a licensed practitioner, assisted in the development of individualized treatment plans that included problems descriptions, goal statements, and specific clinical interventions; and/or I have assisted with writing comprehensive treatment summaries for courts, community supervision agencies, or other social service organizations describing recommendations for further treatment; and/or I have documented clinical treatment contacts. I have prepared psychosocial assessments which determined specific treatment or case management needs for individuals; and/or I have developed individualized treatment plans that included problem description, goal statement, and specific clinical intervention; and/or I have writtem comprehensive treatment summaries for courts, community supervision agencies, or other social service organizations describing recommendations for further treatment. None of the above. 7 The Specialty Treatment Program Specialist - (Female Integrated Treatment Program) (FIT) must possess strong verbal communication skills in order to provide individual and group counseling sessions to inmates, interview and perform assessments of inmates entering into the program, and explain program requirements, procedures, and treatment plans with offenders. He/she will also need to present programming to the institution administration staff and to community coalitions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have presented a case to a clinical team for discussion; and/or I have delivered training in a professional workshop; and/or I have facilitated psychotherapy groups; and/or I have chaired a professional meeting or led a professional discussion group. I have facilitated process psychotherapy groups; and/or I have made presentations at professional conferences; and/or I have instructed a face-to-face undergraduate or graduate course. I have taught psychoeducational classes; and/or I have participated in a professional discussion group; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy; and/or I have participated in a clinical team by providing progress updates on a patient. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).