Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Regional Comptroller interacts with management officials and other agency staff by providing financial advice and guidance as well as making presentations on budget and accounting related issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as chairperson, guided workgroup in resolving technical and complex budget issues; and/or I have, as a committee member, presented the proposed agency/organization annual budget and responded to questions posed by Regional Director, Deputy Regional Director, Regional and Central Office Program Administrators and institution Wardens/Associate Wardens); and/or I have made recommendations to management on how to process re-programming; and/or I have provided instruction on financial topics for the regional budget meetings and/or regional new Wardens/Associate Wardens orientations/trainings, and regional senior management officials; and/or I have represented the region in high level meetings regarding budget & finance matters (mid-year component fund status reviews with BOP Central Office, Executive Staff video conferences, regional comptroller meetings, DOJ financial manager conferences, BOP national budget & finance meetings, etc.). I have resolved or clarified non-routine budget issues with regional and institution staff; and/or I have responded to questions from the field and regional staff on budget issues; and/or I have advised institution Business Administrators on resolving automated budget data problems; and/or I have worked with headquarters program managers in the development and execution of regional budgets for regional and field operations. I have provided status of automated financial and budget systems to others when the system experiences problems; and/or I have given status of allotments; and/or I have provided routine information to program managers about availability or status of funds; and/or I have provided guidance to subordinates on routine budget issues; and/or I have worked with individual/local Cost Center Managers on local Regional Office budget issues; and/or I have participated in local level Regional Budget & Planning Committee meetings. None of the above. 5 Regional Comptroller oversees as well as participates in the preparation of budget reports, plans, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the region&rsquo;s financial integrity and well-being. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared standard memorandum to request, remove or reallocate funds; and/or I have prepared informational memorandum on required budgeting and accounting procedures within the region; and/or I have initiated personnel actions, such as justification to initiate career ladder promotion for subordinate employees. I have prepared operational memorandums related to oversight findings, OIG Audit findings, Central Office inquiries; and/or I have prepared correspondence to regional administrators regarding budget preparation instructions; and/or I have prepared reports to the Central Office Administration Division on status of regional budgetary resources; and/or I have developed/prepared training course curriculum for Regional Warden’s Training as well as other regionally hosted training related to Budget & Finance for Program Managers on topics related to Budget Development & Execution. I have developed recommendations to be included in the national budget policy that effects the agency/organization; and/or I have responded to inquiries from management officials regarding re-programming of funds; and/or I have prepared responses to institution CEO’s, the Assistant Director, Administration Division or BOP Director; and/or I have written executive staff papers on budget related issues; and/or I have prepared narratives to justify projects in the regional annual budget submission; and/or I have developed/prepared curriculum for regional office hosted training courses related to Budget & Finance (i.e., Business Administrators, Accountants). None of the above. 6 Regional Comptroller analyzes, draws conclusions, and makes recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed plans to meet Regional Office executive staff/top management goals for new regional and/or BOP initiatives; and/or I have researched present and historical financial data to develop alternatives for downsizing the region; and/or I have detected inconsistencies or potential problems in regional and institutional budgets and made recommendation for resolution; and/or I have performed cost analysis providing recommendations to Wardens for corrective action; and/or I have identified spending trends and weaknesses and made recommendations to upper management, providing guidance to Senior Management Officials (i.e., Regional Director, Deputy Regional Director and Institution Wardens/Associate Warden and Regional Program Administrators) regarding financial planning and the relationship to various regional and BOP Strategic Goals (i.e., reduction goals, cost containment efforts, consolidation costs). I have provided guidance regarding budget activity/object class code relationships to field locations; and/or I have determined relevant budget data from computer reports for field/local offices; and/or I have determined and resolved minor buying discrepancies in reports; and/or I have identified improper spending for program areas and initiated appropriate corrective action. I have analyzed deficits for program area and recommended solutions/corrective action; and/or I have developed a budget for individual institutions/program areas; and/or I have determined the need for internal reprogramming; and/or I have reviewed budget justifications for validity and subsequent action by management, monitored obligations and operating plan and overall facility fund status; and/or I have identified unusual obligation trends, patterns on inconsistent rates in relationship to prior year history, investigated and determined causes for inconsistent spending patterns. None of the above. 7 Regional Comptroller must possess comprehensive knowledge of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have restructured budget transactions to determine errors and omissions; and/or I have compared automated financial and budget system reports to ensure plans balanced; and/or I have developed budgets consistent with agency guidelines; and/or I have ensured reprogramming requests met reprogramming guidelines established by headquarters and DOJ; and/or I have compiled cost inputs for budget submissions, participating in budget related workgroups. I have prepared monthly, quarterly or annual budget reports and maintained financial records for income and expenses; and/or I have met with the accounting representatives to resolve budget issues; and/or I have ensured funds are utilized for allowable items; and/or I have organized budget data for budget submission; and/or I have completed federal budget training course. I have determined the legality of using appropriated funds to purchase specific items; and/or I have monitored several appropriations, such as salary and expense (S&E), Trust Fund (TF), Violent Crime Reduction Program (VCRP) and building and facilities (B&F), to determine how well the Region/organization was functioning financially; and/or I have provided guidance to the business offices in resolving financial issues. None of the above. 8 Regional Comptroller uses a variety of procedures, policies, and regulations to determine the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have submitted reprogramming requests on time according to budget policy; and/or I have ensured budget submissions from program areas are in the proper format; and/or I have used the budget manual to determine appropriate obligations status and verified deadlines for various reports. I have used legal documents such as the U.S. Codes, Executive Orders, court rulings or appropriation laws to determine whether funds were used properly; and/or I have researched and applied BOP, DOJ, GSA and Treasury guidelines to make recommendations on budget and finance related matters; and/or I have explained to new regional program administrators/Wardens/CEO’s the appropriation guidelines; and/or I have provided input to the development and/or revision of BOP Budget and Finance policies, Program Review Guidelines, Financial Management Institution Supplements. I have provided alternatives to field/local offices in using budget system table files when pulling information, using other automated financial management programs; and/or I have used BOP policy to determine budget reporting requirements for the fiscal year; and/or I have ensured authorized positions do not exceed the ceiling established when coordinating position actions in conjunction with HR staff; and/or I have used agency budget manual and other policies (appropriation law, budget circulars, directives, etc.) to provide guidance to lower level staff in resolving budget issues. None of the above. 9 Regional Comptroller must analyze, draw conclusions, and make determinations regarding regional fund status and compliance with BOP Policy and OIG Audit standards (audited financial statements). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored accounting transactions to detect improper balances and notified field locations for corrective actions; and/or I have reviewed monthly proof checks for recurring unreconciled items and initiated action; and/or I have monitored treasury financial reports for problems. I have participated as a taskforce member in developing a new automated accounting system; and/or I have made recommendations after monitoring and detecting trends that would create major weaknesses in the accounting system; and/or I have applied OMB, Treasury, GSA or DOJ guidelines to implement major changes to an accounting system; and/or I have researched and resolved critical accounting issues for management; and/or I have provided oversight and coordinated regional finance activities related to the BOP OIG Financial Statements Audit. I have checked daily accounting reports to ensure transactions were processed; and/or I have compared automated financial and budget system reports with DOJ reports to determine if accounting information matched; and/or I have reviewed subordinates’ work to determine if proper accounting entries were made. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).