Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose one answer which best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 11. Examples of experience may include independently performing budget administration duties requiring complex review and analysis; preparing analyses/justification of requests for funds; monitoring and tracking obligations and expenditures throughout the execution phase of the annual budget cycle; consolidating/reviewing/analyzing budget requests. I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following describe your experience coordinating budget preparation? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I analyze, advise, and recommend solutions to budget formulation, justification, and presentation problems for the organization/office/bureau that I work. I recommend and justify necessary budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I prepare summary analysis of appropriate funds requests and recommend priority uses of limited funds. I am responsible for budget formulation, justification and execution for the agency. I review, analyze, and interpret legislation appropriations language, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directives, Treasury department guidelines, and Congressional and Presidential directives pertaining to the agency budgetary requirements. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 3 Which of the following best demonstrates your ability to apply the principles, practices and methods of budget execution to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limitations in the approved budget? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience applying the principles, practices and methods of budget execution to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limitations in the approved budget as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience applying the principles, practices and methods of budget execution to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limitations in the approved budget as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 4 Which of the following describes your experience coordinating budget preparations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed solutions to budget formulation, justification, and presentation problems for my organization/office/bureau. I have recommended budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I have been responsible for budget formulation, justification or execution for my assigned program areas. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to apply financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience applying financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience applying financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 6 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience, education, or training communicating in writing to provide advice and guidance to high-level managers on budget, fund and accounts management? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience communicating in writing to provide advice and guidance to high-level managers on budget, fund and accounts management as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience communicating in writing to provide advice and guidance to high-level managers on budget, fund and accounts management as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 7 Choose the statement that best reflects your experience in budget formulation (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I evaluate budget implications before taking action. I perform cost benefit tradeoffs. I develop budget requests and related supporting documentation. I estimate funding needs. I evaluate funding and staffing request in relation to current obligations and expenditures.. I track program expenses against plan and identify causes of differences between actuals and plan. I assess the impact of changes in programs and regulations on salaries, travel, benefits, overtime, and related expenses to the unit's budget.. I develop a household budget and use it to manage my personal finances. I develop a budget for a club or similar organization to receive funds to cover operating expenses, I have not performed any of the tasks above. 8 Do you have experience performing the following duties: budget development, budget allocation and execution, financial management and reporting, and development of budget and financial management procedures and policies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your experience developing an annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in developing an annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs. I have had education or training in developing an annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed an annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed an annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed an annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in the performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.