Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 With which tasks have you assisted senior sheet metal workers? Answer to this question is required Cutting metal Rolling metal Folding metal Drilling metal Filling rough metal Painting metal None of the above 2 Which actions have you performed to assist a senior employee or journeyman? Answer to this question is required I prepared work sites (e.g., placed tarps over areas/items to be protected). I retrieved materials and tools. I cleaned the work site. I disposed of work site debris (e.g., pipe scrap, dirt). I disposed of hazardous materials. I cleaned HVAC condenser coils. None of the above. 3 Which safety equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Protective gloves Welding safety vest Welding face shield Safety glasses Safety harness None of the above 4 How have you assisted with maintaining tools and equipment? Answer to this question is required Inspected tools/equipment before using them to ensure they were in proper working order Notified a supervisor when tools/equipment were damaged or missing Cleaned tools/equipment after they were used Ensured tools/equipment were not exposed to elements known to cause damage None of the above 5 Have you interpreted and closely followed oral instructions from supervisors or senior workers to complete a work assignment? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Do possess the ability to work with tools and equipment used in the Sheet Metal occupation Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Do you have experience tracking the status of orders for supplies, equipment, or materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 From the responses below select the types of hand tools you have experienced in using in sheet metal mechanic work: Answer to this question is required Measuring Tapes Rulers Hack saws Hammer Hammer drills Snips (shears) None of the above 9 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 10 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.