Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Graduate Training: Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below. An internship program involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA). A residency program involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA), American Osteopathic Association (AOA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). A fellowship program involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. 2 In addition to the minimum education, training and licensure requirement, you must have five years of graduate training in the specialty of the position OR equivalent experience and training as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the additional requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license, graduate training programs and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcripts, training certifications and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcript's, training certifications and medical license documentation at the time of application. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief Psychiatrist is responsible for providing consultation to the Psychiatric staff and physicians in the management of psychiatric emergencies, as well as in determining appropriate disposition of these individuals. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in diagnosing and treating a wide range of psychiatric conditions on an inpatient, outpatient, and emergency basis; and/or I have provided emergency care to mental health patients through ongoing practice in an emergency room setting or an inpatient hospital setting; and/or I have identified common medical emergencies and provided time limited emergency assistance pending the arrival of emergency medical services, such as controlling bleeding or providing CPR. I have experience in providing ongoing care to psychiatric patients with chronic mental illness on an inpatient and outpatient basis; and/or I have provided on-call psychiatric coverage through telephone contact to a local mental health or general hospital system; and/or I have conducted triage admissions to a mental health clinic or general hospital mental health unit. I have performed comprehensive clinical assessments of psychiatric emergencies and appropriate physical, pharmacological, and psychological interventions in psychiatric emergencies, including the use of seclusion and restraints, emergency medication, and behavioral interventions; and/or I have intervened during and treated psychiatric emergencies, such as suicidal or violent behavior, acute psychosis, delirium, alcohol and drug withdrawal syndromes, catatonia, or neuroleptic malignant syndrome; and/or I have experience in dealing with risk management issues, such as documentation of confrontation avoidance techniques and documentation of emergency interventions. None of the above. 5 The Chief Psychiatrist is responsible for developing programs and policies to address the mental health needs of inmates in a wide variety of institutions in which care may be delivered by a number of different types of health care providers in widely differing settings. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led the development and delivery of mental health services in an integrated health care delivery system; and/or I have experienced in writing policies and implementing policies, practice guidelines, and other tools in standardizing the delivery of mental health care in ambulatory and inpatient settings; and/or I have experienced in peer review processes, quality assurance processes, and other systems designed to continuously improve the delivery of mental health care; and/or I have experienced in supervising professional and support staff in a health care delivery system; and/or I have addressed quality of health care within the context of a cost-containment or managed care health care delivery system; and/or I have managed multiple projects and prioritized work for subordinate staff within a mental health care system. I have experience as a team leader of a mental health care team in an inpatient and outpatient setting; and/or I have participated in the JCAHO accreditation process or other accrediting process (such as American Correctional Association); and/or I have experience in successfully implementing new policies and procedures in an inpatient or outpatient mental health care setting. I have experience in writing and implementing policies and procedures as they relate to the delivery of mental health services in an inpatient and outpatient setting; and/or I have experience providing clinical and administrative supervision to medical, psychiatric and support staff in a mental health care delivery system; and/or I have participated in peer reviews or other quality assurance processes as they relate to the delivery of mental health care services. None of the above. 6 The Chief Psychiatrist employed by the Federal Bureau of Prisons must possess comprehensive knowledge of psychiatric standards and regulations, particularly as they pertain to nationally recognized clinical practice guidelines (such as the APA clinical practice guidelines), as well as in-depth understanding of the accreditation process of health care and correctional systems. This knowledge is necessary to provide leadership to staff as they provide mental health treatment to patients within a correctional setting.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized treatment guidelines developed by insurance carriers or managed care organizations as the primary source of the standard of care/accepted practice; and/or I have participated in committees or workgroups evaluating, developing, or implementing clinical practice guidelines for a local hospital or clinic practice; and/or I have participated in the implementation of policy and standards to effectively meet accreditation standards of JCAHO, ACA, or other nationally recognized accrediting agency. I have applied psychiatric standards and regulations in multiple health care delivery settings, such as community mental health care, ambulatory care settings, inpatient settings and correctional settings; and/or I have provided active leadership in the development and implementation of policies and procedures for the delivery of mental health services that are in compliance with standards of recognized accrediting agencies, such as JCAHO and ACA, resulting in accreditation by at least one of these agencies; and/or I have participated in National Continuing Education conferences for area of specialty/training; and/or I have utilized knowledge of federal laws and insurance carrier rules and regulations to assure patients receive appropriate medically necessary health care, advocating for patient’s best interest when required. I have experienced in practicing in a hospital which has actively sought and successfully achieved JCAHO accreditation; and/or I have referenced medical textbooks for recurring medical standards determinations; and/or I have used clinical practice guidelines in clinical practice through the use of protocols, algorithms, or other means; and/or I have experience with the use of automated utilization review programs. None of the above. 7 The Chief Psychiatrist must effectively interact with physicians, staff, inmates, judges, attorneys, and other outside resources in order to provide leadership in the delivery of mental health care to the inmate population. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, executive staff of the institution, along with Regional and Central Office employees on a regular and recurring basis. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided input/recommendations during recurring meetings; and/or I have discussed medical history or charts with other physicians to draw appropriate conclusions and make treatment recommendations; and/or I have provided instructions on care to nurses or other subordinate health care professionals. I have participated in court testimony and/or reports to the court related to commitment proceedings on individual patients; and/or I have worked in a team process in the delivery of health care to patients in inpatient and outpatient settings; and/or I have managed conflict between staff and patients, and among staff; and/or I have participated in competency evaluations on medical patients refusing necessary medical care. I have chaired a committee for community/hospital health care services which resulted in implementing a streamlined health care process; and/or I have negotiated with managers, physicians and insurance carriers, the resolution of complex medical care issues/needs; and/or I have spoken as a keynote speaker at a medical convention or conference on a new medical treatment; and/or I have resolved disagreements between medical professionals on patient care/treatment; and/or I have presented lecture/presentation on the benefit of purchasing new medical apparatus to hospital management/administrators; and/or I have represented the facility as a member of a Community Relations Board on medical relations; and/or I have served as Chief of Staff of a hospital or large multi-specialty clinic; and/or I have prepared reports to the court and testified before the courts on mental health issues pertaining to individual patients or as an recognized expert in psychiatric issues. None of the above. 8 The Chief Psychiatrist must be able to produce written documents to individuals internal and external to the agency as well as the public. He/she is responsible for reviewing medical and psychiatric literature and interpreting it for health care practitioners in a correctional setting. Review and interpretation includes production of comprehensive clinical practice guidelines, teaching health care staff in formal and informal settings, and in providing information to individuals within and outside the agency. He/she is responsible for writing and interpreting health care policies, as well as developing education and guidance for staff in the field on policies relevant to the delivery of mental health care in the correctional setting. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a medical facility; and/or I have prepared technical/complex correspondence regarding patient medical needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional manpower, equipment, medical certification/training, at a medical facility; and/or I have prepared and had published articles in medical journals. I have prepared budget request package for consideration by health care facility administrators; and/or I have prepared response to inquiry received regarding medical decisions made/patient care; and/or I have completed clear medical orders/medical charts; and/or I have prepared medical opinions or case consultation reports and documentation. I have dictated history, physicals, and discharge summaries on hospital patients; and/or I have completed required reports for insurance companies, worker’s compensation cases, Social Security Disability applications; and/or I have prepared justifications to refer patient to specialist which were accepted by insurance carrier. None of the above. 9 The Chief Psychiatrist must be able to perform current and emerging techniques and procedures associated with psychiatric medicine. He/she may have limitations to overcome, such as the availability of medical equipment in a correctional environment; however, he/she must possess the ability to diagnose, determine appropriate treatment, and perform procedures within the facility&rsquo;s scope, or establish procedures and relationships with community consultants to provide the necessary diagnostic and therapeutic services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed comprehensive evaluations of adult outpatients, including history, physical, and neurological examinations, ordering and interpreting laboratory and radiologic studies and develops a treatment plan; and/or I have monitored patients on a regular basis including reassessment of symptoms, response to medications, side effects from medications, therapeutic drug level monitoring where appropriate, monitoring for development of tardive dyskinesia; and/or I have performed risk assessments for thoughts, plans, and/or behaviors related to self-harm or harm towards others; and/or I have prescribed appropriate medications for the following: depression, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, anxiety disorders, and other primary psychiatric conditions with and without complicating medical conditions. I have performed Electroconvulsive therapy; and/or I have performed Cognitive Behavioral therapy; and/or I have managed inpatient acute psychiatric conditions, including seclusion and restraint, detoxification, and emergency involuntary medications; and/or I have performed assessments and reports for involuntary commitment of patients; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluations of individuals with history of substance abuse or dependence; and/or I have managed opiate dependent patients with methadone and/or buprenorphine. I have performed Psychodynamic psychotherapy; and/or I have served as a “consultation liaison” in psychiatry; and/or I have performed comprehensive evaluation of adult inpatients, including history, physical, and neurological examination, ordering and interpreting of laboratory and radiological studies and develops treatment plan. None of the above. 10 The Chief Psychiatrist must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way, which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff and inmate population in order to maintain operation. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provided feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in a subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization. I have combined a monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by a subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and an existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through a formal mentoring program. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).