Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 3 What best describes your ability and experience generating technical project plans and schedules? Answer to this question is required I have provided input to project plans and schedules I have independently generated project plans and schedules, but on an infrequent basis It was an essential part of my work duties to generate comprehensive project plans and schedules. I have no experience 4 Which of the following best describes your prior work experience (Federal or other) in the architectural engineering design field? Answer to this question is required I have led others in the production or review of design and construction documents for large, new construction or major renovation projects. I have served as a team member producing or reviewing design and construction documents for new construction or major renovation projects. I have produced or reviewed design and construction for the repair or redesign of existing facilities. None of the above 5 Which of the following duties have your performed while applying concepts and principles related to the construction industry? Answer to this question is required Estimating Pre-project planning Partnering Life cycle costing Value engineering Construction methodologies Contracting techniques Contractor resources None of the above 6 Do you have experience serving as a lead architect/engineer responsible for developing& preparing or managing the preparation of construction drawings, specifications, construction cost estimates,& schedules for design projects with complex building programs for one or more of the following: museum, laboratories, and/or cultural facilities? Work assignments must have spanned from inception through occupancy& carried a total budget of $10M or more. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following types of reviews do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cross-disciplinary quality control and coordination review of construction drawings and specifications for design projects with complex architecture and engineering scope Review of construction drawings and specifications for codes and standards compliance and technical correctness Constructability review of construction drawings and specifications None of the above 8 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience balancing competing priorities among multiple simultaneous projects and ensuring self and others meet deadlines and produce deliverables as necessary for project success? Answer to this question is required I have independently managed multifaceted, simultaneous projects that required skillful and diplomatic balancing of competing priorities, resulting in successful completion of concurrent projects on time and within budget. I have been a key team member on projects for which I managed concurrent schedules and balanced competing priorities between projects, resulting in the successful completion of projects. I have worked on a project that involved managing schedules for self and others, determining priorities, and coordinating with project members to meet deadlines and contribute to project success. I do not have experience managing multiple simultaneous projects, schedules, and priorities. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience leading meetings to discuss the scope of building requirements and projects? Answer to this question is required I have led meetings of my peers and/or contracted design professionals. I have organized and supported briefings to process stakeholders and colleagues related to requirement solutions, prioritization and long range funding. I have briefed others (co-workers, superiors, etc.) on the work that I am performing. I do not have experience leading meetings about the scope of building projects. 10 Which of the following tasks have you performed as part of your job on a regular basis? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Composed job related written correspondence Kept logs or records in spread sheet format Writing technical reports for the purpose of documentation or further investigation Prepared formal written instructions or procedures for use by others Created formal written guidelines or policies that impact others performance None of the above 11 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions or make recommendations for design change and/or substitution of materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Have you authored, supervised, managed or directed complex project, program, information or decision papers/reports that have been staffed or reviewed by upper management, agency heads, or department level clients or users? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following categories best described the type of buildings you have experience managing or overseeing construction or renovation of? Answer to this question is required Homes Schools Commercials properties Office buildings Museums Other cultural facilities I do not have experience managing or overseeing construction or renovation 14 Which of the following best describes your experience representing your office or organization to others within or outside your organization? Answer to this question is required I have responded to requests for technical cost information from my peers and colleagues. I have been the main liaison and/or point of contact between my building cost team and my clients or stakeholders. I have been responsible for resolving problems, relaying building project cost information, and interpreting building project cost procedures and requirements within my project team and among stakeholders of the project. I have represented the interests and priorities of my office or organization in communications with outside organizations. I have no experience, education or training representing my office or organization to others within or outside your organizations. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience with advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have not had experience, education or training in concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance. I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.