Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have the ability to do the work of a Maintenance Mechanic without more than normal supervision. I do NOT have the ability as described above. 2 This position requires physical exertion such as long periods of standing, walking, bending, stooping, reaching, crawling; and lifting and carrying heavy objects of 50 pounds or less. I am able to satisfy the physical requirements of this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience working as a Maintenance Worker Helper under normal supervision? The experience includes general construction, installation, maintenance, and repair work involving carpentry, plumbing, electrical, painting, and grounds maintenance work. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 This position requires a valid State or District of Columbia driver’s license in order to transport materials, equipment or staff to job sites. Do you have a valid “state” or District of Columbia driver’s license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you included a copy of your Drivers&rsquo; License (Front &amp; Back) and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following describes your training and/or education in the maintenance trade? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Carpentry Plumbing Electrical Masonry Painting None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your electrical construction/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have not had training/education in the electrical trade or electrical construction/renovation experience. I have had training/education in the electrical trade but I have no electrical construction/renovation experience. I have assisted others in performing electrician duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have independently performed electrician duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job. I have led and/or monitor the work of others performing electrical duties in the construction field. 8 Which of the following best describes your carpentry construction/renovation experience? Answer to this question is required I have not had training/education in the electrical trade or experience in carpentry construction. I have had training/education in the electrical trade but I have no experience in carpentry construction. I have assisted others in performing carpentry duties in the construction field with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have independently performed carpentry duties in the construction field as a regular part of the job I have led and/or monitor the work of others performing carpentry duties in the construction field. 9 Which of the following plumbing systems do you have experience working with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Drain, waste, and vent lines Domestic water systems and supply lines Water heating systems Faucets and fixtures Toilets and urinals None of the above 10 Which of the following building environments do you have experience performing pipefitting or plumbing preventive or predictive maintenance services? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Residential Light Commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your highest level of maintenance experience, education and/or training? Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program Journeyman level On the job training None of the above 12 Which of the following best describes your knowledge with asbestos containing materials (ACM)? Answer to this question is required I have had education and/or training in asbestos containing materials. I have not had education or training with asbestos containing materials I have some training and have assisted others with asbestos containing materials I have led, trained and/or monitored the work of others in asbestos containing materials 13 Which of the following types of construction projects do you have experience working with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required New construction Remodeling/Retro fit Repair/Maintenance None of the above 14 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have minimal knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have extensive knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. I have intermediate knowledge of electrical theory and instruments used in the shop trade practices. 15 Which of the following measuring instruments do you have experience using in the maintenance field? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Levels (line, framing, laser) Stud finders Tape measure Multi-meter Volume measurement None of the above 16 Which of the following types of drawings do you have experience using as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Mechanical Electrical Plumbing Architectural None of the above 17 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications do you have experience using as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Email Word processing Spreadsheets Databases Automated building management systems Internet search engines AutoCAD None of the above 18 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the maintenance trade? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill and reciprocating saw) Plumber drain snakes Multi-meter Fiber optic camera systems Oxyacetylene torch None of the above 19 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience performing preventive maintenance and repairs in a commercial building environment as a regular part of your duties? Answer to this question is required I have performed preventive maintenance and repairs in a commercial building environment with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have assisted others with performing preventive maintenance and repairs in a commercial building environment. I have independently performed preventive maintenance and repairs in a commercial building environment as a regular part of my duties. I have no experience performing preventive maintenance and repairs in a commercial building environment. I have overseen and monitored the work of others performing preventive maintenance and repairs in a commercial building environment. I have led or supervised the work of others performing preventive maintenance and repairs in a commercial building environment. 20 Which of the following demonstrates your experience performing structural maintenance duties? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Caulking Expansion joint repair Ceramic tile Paver Drywall repair Framing None of the above 21 Which of the following demonstrates your experience with equipment assembly, installation, operations, repair and maintenance? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Door and lock systems Ceiling systems Flooring systems Plumbing systems Electrical systems None of the above 22 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.