Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Procurement and Property Specialist must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people in the organization, as well as with the public.&nbsp; He/she typically meet and deal with contractors, institution staff, regional office staff, local regulatory agencies, government regulatory officials, vendor representative and contractors providing services.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed procurement topics with Financial Management personnel; and/or I have obtained wage rate information from Department of Labor; and/or I have spoken to vendors to obtain routine information; and/or I have discussed with supervisor regarding the acquisition, accountability, utilization, maintenance, transfer, or disposition of controlled personal and real property. I have contacted technical staff to determine the applicability of specifications; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions/status of a purchase; and/or I have discussed purchase orders with supervisor. I have informed supervisor of issues affecting contracts; and/or I have gathered information on request for proposals; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting; and/or I have provided non-routine guidance to institution personnel in the acquisition, accountability, and disposal of all property. None of the above. 3 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she must be able to prepare and submit various procurement and property reports required by other agencies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented contract terminations; and/or I have prepared contract price/costs proposals; and/or I have written custom reports for the System for Award Management (SAM.gov) and SENTRY Property Management Systems; and/or I have reviewed property audit directives and designed changes to procedures or programs which prevented problems from occurring in the future. I have prepared a memorandum of understanding; and/or I have prepared requests for special authorization; and/or I have prepared documentation to close out contracts; and/or I have assisted in the evaluation, classification, reporting or final disposition of personal property. I have assisted in preparing contract price/cost proposals; and/or I have completed unauthorized commitment memos; and/or I have assisted with preparing rough drafts of Statements of Work. None of the above. 4 The Procurement and Property Specialists must have knowledge of procurement and property functions to administer and execute personal service contracts, non-personal service contracts, and to ensure property management controls are exercised. &nbsp;Under general supervision, he/she prepares, evaluates, and administers procurement and property actions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchase and contract actions would be competitive or sole source; and/or I have prepared purchase orders & requests for purchase; and/or I have prepared amendments; and/or I have ensured the preparation and maintenance of inventory and accounting controls related to personal and real property. I have maintained purchasing files; and/or I have prepared forms to award contracts; and/or I have demonstrated proficiency in using the System for Award Management (SAM.gov) and CCR (Central Contractors Registration). I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have issued delivery orders; and/or I have conducted a physical inspection to determine condition, classification or decision-making with respect to utilization or recommendation for declaring personal property in excess to the institution; and/or I have coordinated annual physical inventories and verifications of accountable personal and real property. None of the above. 5 The Procurement and Property Specialists must exercise judgment in selecting proper sources of supply and methods affecting the purchase to obligate funds and responsible for the overall property management program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with monitoring contracts; and/or I have processed proposals/quotes; and/or I have monitored requisitions for compliance with policy. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements, or other instructional/regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simplified acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method, and type of contract; and/or I have used a variety of media to keep abreast of excess or surplus property being offered for sale, donation or redistribution by the Federal Government; and/or I have assessed the needs of the Bureau of Prisons and made independent decisions to accept or forego the acquisition of property. I have followed the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have ensured proposals/quotes contained proper specifications; and/or I have reviewed contracts for compliance with regulations; and/or I have reviewed real and personal property reports and dictated corrective action when necessary and reconciled reports with accounting and other regulatory agencies. None of the above. 6 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization.&nbsp; He/she must have knowledge of the computerized property accountability system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program; and/or I have used SENTRY to obtain information to write a report. I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, etc.); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have created and utilized documents/forms using a variety of word processing programs. I have assisted in entering and retrieving data using spreadsheet software; and/or I have utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program including Sallyport. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Procurement and Property Specialist must be able to clearly and effectively express ideas and convey information to people in the organization, as well as with the public.&nbsp; He/she typically meet and deal with contractors, institution staff, regional office staff, local regulatory agencies, government regulatory officials, vendor representative and contractors providing services.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have discussed procurement topics with Financial Management personnel; and/or I have obtained wage rate information from Department of Labor; and/or I have spoken to vendors to obtain routine information; and/or I have discussed with supervisor regarding the acquisition, accountability, utilization, maintenance, transfer, or disposition of controlled personal and real property. I have contacted technical staff to determine the applicability of specifications; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions/status of a purchase; and/or I have discussed purchase orders with supervisor. I have informed supervisor of issues affecting contracts; and/or I have gathered information on request for proposals; and/or I have obtained quotes from vendors; and/or I have discussed procurement actions and relevant information with co-workers during a meeting; and/or I have provided non-routine guidance to institution personnel in the acquisition, accountability, and disposal of all property. None of the above. 3 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be able to communicate with people from various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she must be able to prepare and submit various procurement and property reports required by other agencies.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented contract terminations; and/or I have prepared contract price/costs proposals; and/or I have written custom reports for the System for Award Management (SAM.gov) and SENTRY Property Management Systems; and/or I have reviewed property audit directives and designed changes to procedures or programs which prevented problems from occurring in the future. I have prepared a memorandum of understanding; and/or I have prepared requests for special authorization; and/or I have prepared documentation to close out contracts; and/or I have assisted in the evaluation, classification, reporting or final disposition of personal property. I have assisted in preparing contract price/cost proposals; and/or I have completed unauthorized commitment memos; and/or I have assisted with preparing rough drafts of Statements of Work. None of the above. 4 The Procurement and Property Specialists must have knowledge of procurement and property functions to administer and execute personal service contracts, non-personal service contracts, and to ensure property management controls are exercised. &nbsp;Under general supervision, he/she prepares, evaluates, and administers procurement and property actions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected purchasing methods; and/or I have made decisions whether purchase and contract actions would be competitive or sole source; and/or I have prepared purchase orders & requests for purchase; and/or I have prepared amendments; and/or I have ensured the preparation and maintenance of inventory and accounting controls related to personal and real property. I have maintained purchasing files; and/or I have prepared forms to award contracts; and/or I have demonstrated proficiency in using the System for Award Management (SAM.gov) and CCR (Central Contractors Registration). I have assisted senior staff in the preparation of terms for contract proposals; and/or I have monitored deliveries as specified by purchase orders; and/or I have issued delivery orders; and/or I have conducted a physical inspection to determine condition, classification or decision-making with respect to utilization or recommendation for declaring personal property in excess to the institution; and/or I have coordinated annual physical inventories and verifications of accountable personal and real property. None of the above. 5 The Procurement and Property Specialists must exercise judgment in selecting proper sources of supply and methods affecting the purchase to obligate funds and responsible for the overall property management program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with monitoring contracts; and/or I have processed proposals/quotes; and/or I have monitored requisitions for compliance with policy. I have evaluated proposals for conformance to contracting regulations, program statements, or other instructional/regulatory materials; and/or I have utilized simplified acquisition procedures; and/or I have determined contract acquisitions method, and type of contract; and/or I have used a variety of media to keep abreast of excess or surplus property being offered for sale, donation or redistribution by the Federal Government; and/or I have assessed the needs of the Bureau of Prisons and made independent decisions to accept or forego the acquisition of property. I have followed the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have ensured proposals/quotes contained proper specifications; and/or I have reviewed contracts for compliance with regulations; and/or I have reviewed real and personal property reports and dictated corrective action when necessary and reconciled reports with accounting and other regulatory agencies. None of the above. 6 The Procurement and Property Specialists must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization.&nbsp; He/she must have knowledge of the computerized property accountability system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program; and/or I have used SENTRY to obtain information to write a report. I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, etc.); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have created and utilized documents/forms using a variety of word processing programs. I have assisted in entering and retrieving data using spreadsheet software; and/or I have utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program including Sallyport. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).