Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to provide office administration and advisory services.** Provides administrative and program management services to support the mission of the agency. Performs the following activities: 1) applies analytical/evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of programs and administrative office operations, 2) creates and maintains databases, spreadsheets, and other automated records for documenting, tracking, presenting, and analyzing information, 3) participates in meetings and assists in the planning, coordination, and scheduling of events and activities, 4) provides training on safety, emergency preparedness, purchasing, travel, and other administrative activities, 5) coordinates domestic and international travel arrangements and prepares travel authorizations and supporting documentation, and finalizes travel voucher expense reports for reimbursement, and 6) manages government property and telecommunications equipment. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, performed ALL of the above administrative and programmatic functions for a high-profile office. As a primary responsibility, performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above administrative and programmatic functions for a high-profile office. As a primary responsibility, performed TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above administrative and programmatic functions for a high-profile office. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to provide procurement and purchasing coordination and liaison services.** Provided procurement and purchasing coordination and liaison services by serving as a Government Commercial Purchase Cardholder, ordering supplies, training materials, IT products, office furniture, furnishings, and other essential office items using the Government Purchase Card. In doing so, performs the following activities: 1) maintains knowledge of procedures for receiving and disposing of materials, including government surplus property, 2) responsible for initiating and completing purchase card and IT acquisition activities, 3) liaise with agency infrastructure units to ensure procurements are properly vetted and approved before proceeding with purchasing, and 4) performs monthly log reviews of all transactions and independently reconciles them in the Library&rsquo;s financial management systems (Momentum and eManagement). Answer to this question is required As the focal point for procurement and purchasing coordination and related issues, INDEPENDENTLY performed ALL of the above activities. As the focal point for procurement and purchasing coordination and related issues, INDEPENDENTLY performed THREE (3) of the above activities. As the focal point for procurement and purchasing coordination and related issues, INDEPENDENTLY performed TWO (2) of the above activities. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to provide liaison activities, including research and analysis. Served as a liaison for key operational and programmatic functions, including the copier program, records management, emergency preparedness, telecommunications, property management, IT oversight, catering services, and general office operations. This included assisting in performing liaison tasks to support operational activities, such as answering questions related to travel, badging, property and procurement, safety, facilities, and space management. Supports management by conducting research and analysis of operational, programmatic, and administrative issues. Researches and analyzes program issues that influence strategic goals, performance targets, program strategies, and risk planning. Assists in identifying and collecting critical data, including statistical and programmatic data, to support decision making and fulfill reporting requirements. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, ROUTINELY performed liaison activities with individuals inside and outside the agency for several key operational and programmatic functions. This includes INDEPENDENT research and analysis to support decision-making and fulfill reporting requirements. Occasionally performed liaison activities with individuals inside and outside the agency for operational and programmatic functions. Assisted in providing research and analysis to support decision-making and fulfill reporting requirements. Occasionally performed liaison activities with individuals inside the agency for operational and programmatic functions. Assisted in providing research to support decision-making and fulfill reporting requirements. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Prepared and edited a wide variety of written materials in support of operational and programmatic goals. These documents include: 1) memorandums, 2) reports, 3) meeting minutes, 4) standard operating procedures (SOPs), 5) instructions, 6) policies, 7) announcements and reminders, and 8) presentations. Answer to this question is required Independently authored ALL of the above written materials for dissemination to staff at all levels. With minimal supervision, authored ALL of the above written materials for dissemination to staff. Editing was done by others. Drafted for review by others, ALL of the above written materials for dissemination to staff . None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).