Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 12 semester hours of graduate course work in clinical psychology, counseling psychology, or social work including three (3) semester hours as an intern/practicum student in a clinical treatment setting. OR 12 months, full-time, professional experience in treating (i.e., developing treatment plans, conducting individual and group therapy) individuals with mental health and/or substance use disorders. Applicants must state their&nbsp;professional experience&nbsp;in their resume to be found qualified. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND my resume clearly addresses this factor. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. 4 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 5.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5.1 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must be able to demonstrate the ability to provide counseling in either a group or individual setting. He/she must learn and apply new assessment and treatment techniques and use these techniques to develop rapport and treatment goals during counseling sessions of inmates. During counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor the behavior and facilitate the group process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under supervision of others, I have provided group or individual psychotherapy with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have implemented individualized clinical treatment plans; and/or I have provided case management in a clinical setting. I have co-facilitated group treatment with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have provided case management in a non-clinical setting; and/or I have facilitated a psychoeducational class. I have completed advanced coursework in group and individual psychotherapy; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychoeducational class; and/or I have observed a therapy group. None of the above. 5.2 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must understand the nature of addiction to effectively plan and implement treatment for the inmate population. In addition, he/she must possess knowledge of the facts, concepts, principles and theories of human behavior and addiction and the psychological and social problems associated with those problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have attended seminars in substance use disorders or mental health issues; and/or I have made referrals to treatment programs; and/or I have attended staff meetings that included treatment discussions. I have evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness for admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have performed screenings for substance use or mental health services; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine an individual’s need for support services such as medical or housing services. I have conducted structured diagnostic interviews; and/or I have provided provisional mental health and substance use diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment goals and interventions. None of the above. 5.3 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must be able to demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive clinical reports for treatment planning, treatment progress reports and discharge summaries. These reports are often included with correspondence to the Judiciary, United States Probation, Community Based Treatment Providers and Community Corrections Centers.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings from sample cases; and/or I have developed a sample treatment plan; and/or I have written a case summary from an example case. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings; and/or I have completed draft treatment plans; and/or I have prepared intra-office memoranda; and/or I have written clinical case presentations. I have provided psychosocial assessments which determined specific treatment or case management needs for individuals; and/or I have developed individualized treatment plans that included problem descriptions, goal statements, and specific clinical interventions; and/or I have written comprehensive treatment summaries for courts, community supervision agencies, or other social service organizations describing recommendations for further treatment; and/or I have documented clinical treatment contacts. None of the above. 5.4 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must possess strong verbal communication skills in order to provide individual and group counseling sessions to inmates, interview and perform assessments of inmates entering into the program, and explain program requirements, procedures and treatment plans with offenders. He/she also presents drug abuse treatment programming to the institution administration and staff and to community coalitions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught psychoeducational classes; and/or I have participated in a professional discussion group; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy; and/or I have participated in a clinical team. I have presented a case to a clinical team for discussion; and/or I have delivered training in a professional workshop; and/or I have facilitated psychotherapy groups; and/or I have chaired a professional meeting or led a professional discussion group. I have presented an example case in class; and/or I have participated in a discussion following the observation of a clinical team; and/or I have participated in a discussion following the observation of a group session. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 24 semester hours of graduate course work in clinical psychology, counseling psychology, or social work including six (6) semester hours as an intern/practicum student in a clinical treatment setting. OR 24 months, full-time, professional experience in treating (i.e., developing treatment plans, conducting individual and group therapy) individuals with mental health and/or substance use disorders. Applicants must state their professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND my resume clearly addresses these factors. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 5.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5.1 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must be able to demonstrate the ability to provide counseling in either a group or individual setting. He/she must learn and apply new assessment and treatment techniques and use these techniques to develop rapport and treatment goals during counseling sessions of inmates. During counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor the behavior and facilitate the group process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-facilitated group treatment with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have provided case management in a non-clinical setting; and/or I have facilitated a psychoeducational class. Under supervision of others, I have provided group or individual psychotherapy with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have implemented individualized clinical treatment plans; and/or I have provided case management in a clinical setting. I have provided group/individual psychotherapy with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have conducted group and individual treatment using a cognitive-behavioral theoretical orientation; and/or I have developed and implemented individualized clinical treatment plans. None of the above. 5.2 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must understand the nature of addiction to effectively plan and implement treatment for the inmate population. In addition, he/she must possess knowledge of the facts, concepts, principles and theories of human behavior and addiction and the psychological and social problems associated with those problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness for admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have performed screenings for substance use or mental health services; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine an individual’s need for support services such as medical or housing services. I have conducted structured diagnostic interviews; and/or I have provided provisional mental health and substance use diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment goals and interventions. I have performed comprehensive evaluations of people with mental health or substance use problems; and/or I have conducted structured diagnostic interviews and provided provisional mental health and substance use diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment goals and interventions. None of the above. 5.3 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must be able to demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive clinical reports for treatment planning, treatment progress reports and discharge summaries. These reports are often included with correspondence to the Judiciary, United States Probation, Community Based Treatment Providers and Community Corrections Centers. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided psychosocial assessments which determined specific treatment or case management needs for individuals; and/or I have developed individualized treatment plans that included problem descriptions, goal statements, and specific clinical interventions; and/or I have written comprehensive treatment summaries for courts, community supervision agencies, or other social service organizations describing recommendations for further treatment; and/or I have documented clinical treatment contacts. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings; and/or I have completed draft treatment plans; and/or I have prepared intra-office memoranda; and/or I have written clinical case presentations. I have prepared comprehensive psychosocial assessments which determined specific treatment or case management needs for individuals; and/or I have developed individualized treatment plans that included problem descriptions, goal statements, and specific clinical interventions; and/or I have written comprehensive treatment summaries for courts, community supervision agencies, or other social service organizations describing recommendations for further treatment. None of the above. 5.4 The Drug Abuse Treatment Specialist must possess strong verbal communication skills in order to provide individual and group counseling sessions to inmates, interview and perform assessments of inmates entering into the program, and explain program requirements, procedures and treatment plans with offenders. He/she also presents drug abuse treatment programming to the institution administration and staff and to community coalitions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught psychoeducational classes; and/or I have participated in a professional discussion group; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy; and/or I have participated in a clinical team. I have presented a case to a clinical team for discussion; and/or I have delivered training in a professional workshop; and/or I have facilitated psychotherapy groups; and/or I have chaired a professional meeting or led a professional discussion group. I have facilitated process psychotherapy groups; and/or I have made presentations at professional conferences; and/or I have instructed a face-to-face undergraduate or graduate course. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).