Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Applicants must have one-year specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the next lower grade level. (For positions at GS-4 and above): experience that involved the observation of and assistance in the application of techniques relating to behavior, capacities, traits, interests, and activities of either humans or, under laboratory conditions, animals. Experience may have been gained in connection with a program of research or direct services in psychology that gave a practical understanding of some of the principles, methods, and techniques of psychology needed to assist professional psychologists. OR B. Education: Successful completion of a full 4 year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with major study or at least 24 hours in any combination of courses such as psychology, statistics, or other directly related subjects. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher. I am currently at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement because I am below the GS-02 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher. Within the past 52 weeks I have been at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-02. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Psychology Technician must interact with inmates and staff at all levels throughout the institution, as well as individuals outside the institution.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for supervising the department's work cadre daily.&nbsp; He/she screens telephone calls and handles routine inquiries from both staff and inmates, providing technical assistance and answering questions regarding the general nature of correctional programs.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed an undergraduate course in public speaking; and/or I have greeted guests/applicants/clients; and/or I have set up appointments; and/or I have answered and spoke clearly on telephone and provided general information to clients/staff. I have responded to inquiries on general issues regarding departmental issues; and/or I have provided information to other staff or inmates regarding policies or procedures (i.e., safety talks, orientation to new inmates); and/or I have requested medical/central/psychological files from the appropriate party/source. I have assisted in providing basic office procedure training to other employees; and/or I have provided work status to supervisor; and/or I have member of a public speaking group; and/or I have provided directions to visitors of the institution/organization; and/or I have presented information on upcoming events to a group of co-workers; and/or I have briefed supervisor of workload issues/concerns on a recurring basis. None of the above. 5 The Psychology Technician must have a practical knowledge of psychological principles and methods within the Psychology Department to complete assignments involving the administration, scoring and distribution of various psychological tests.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, under direct supervision, researched and comprehended guidelines; and/or I have recommended actions based on analysis of data from technical reports; and/or I have prepared perpetual audits. I have reviewed emergency/contingency plans as required by policy; and/or I have updated an established checklist to maintain policy compliance; and/or I have requested clarification on new policies/procedures being implemented in a work area. I have provided notification to other institution departments regarding inmate movement; and/or I have, per policy, verified billing assignments for contract inmates; and/or I have used agency policy to respond to inquiries. None of the above. 6 The Psychology Technician is responsible for implementing the automated psychology data entry system, including initial implementation of Psychology Data System (PDS) training of all psychology staff, routine data entry and retrieval, automated test scoring and reconciling discrepancies in the files.&nbsp; He/she uploads data to the national database in Central Office and imports/exports zip files on incoming/outgoing inmates. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized the spell/grammar check functions to correct errors on documents; and/or I have assisted in setting up an automated filing system for easy access and retrieval of information; and/or I have ordered office supplies for a variety of common office equipment. I have maintained rosters of employees; and/or I have kept track of the badges distributed in the institution; and/or I have typed information into the database containing assault/death information; and/or I have run Sentry rosters. I have utilized Word when creating a document; and/or I have typed documents using Word; and/or I have used electronic mail systems. None of the above. 7 The Psychology Technician coordinates the workflow of the office by assuring day-to-day operations are performed in a timely manner.&nbsp; He/she devises new procedures and methods which enhance the overall operation of the department.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have anticipated needs and pre-ordered supplies ahead of schedule; and/or I have submitted work orders; and/or I have screened telephone calls and visitors; and/or I have forwarded mail; and/or I have run inmate rosters. I have, as directed by a supervisor, followed instructions listed by the supervisor when working with unfamiliar documents; and/or I have made lists of various daily functions with directions; and/or I have assisted the supervisor or other office staff with copying, sorting and preparing booklets for conference or Psychology Department Admissions and Orientation (A&O) information for new inmates. I have maintained adequate level of supplies for office; and/or I have ordered furniture and coordinated delivery dates, including the return of any damaged products; and/or I have determined where mail should be forwarded when not addressed to a particular individual; and/or I have maintained manual filing system by filing material/information in a timely manner. None of the above. 8 The Psychology Technician compiles, manages and ensures the security of all psychology files.&nbsp; He/she assists in the establishment of a systematic and resourceful report filing system for all Drug Abuse Program offerings.&nbsp; He/she assists in the coordination and collection of Drug Abuse Program monthly&nbsp;statistical activity reports, and other quarterly and annual reports.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained records on an automated database; and/or I have established alphabetical and/or numerical filing system; and/or I have retrieved files upon request. I have maintained a log of Medical Duty Status (MDS) monthly contacts; and/or I have maintained monthly psychotropic compliance and suicide watch monitoring files; and/or I have maintained monthly reports; and/or I have maintained all other log books within the department. I have labeled records; and/or I have alphabetized files; and/or I have maintained records and files as prescribed by policy. None of the above. Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Applicants must have one-year specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the next lower grade level. (For positions at GS-4 and above): experience that involved the observation of and assistance in the application of techniques relating to behavior, capacities, traits, interests, and activities of either humans or, under laboratory conditions, animals. Experience may have been gained in connection with a program of research or direct services in psychology that gave a practical understanding of some of the principles, methods, and techniques of psychology needed to assist professional psychologists. OR B. Education: Nine semester hours or 13.5 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement; HOWEVER, I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, AND I was not previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( I.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Psychology Technician must interact with inmates and staff at all levels throughout the institution, as well as individuals outside the institution.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for supervising the department's work cadre daily.&nbsp; He/she screens telephone calls and handles routine inquiries from both staff and inmates, providing technical assistance and answering questions regarding the general nature of correctional programs.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded independently to verbal requests for information; and/or I have reduced the necessity of contact with staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on technical issues; and/or I have presented pertinent information to staff members/co-workers during meetings or institution recalls. I have responded to inquiries on general issues regarding departmental issues; and/or I have provided information to other staff or inmates regarding policies or procedures (i.e., safety talks, orientation to new inmates); and/or I have requested medical/central/psychological files from the appropriate party/source. I have assisted in providing basic office procedure training to other employees; and/or I have provided work status to supervisor; and/or I have member of a public speaking group; and/or I have provided directions to visitors of the institution/organization; and/or I have presented information on upcoming events to a group of co-workers; and/or I have briefed supervisor of workload issues/concerns on a recurring basis. None of the above. 5 The Psychology Technician must have a practical knowledge of psychological principles and methods within the Psychology Department to complete assignments involving the administration, scoring and distribution of various psychological tests.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, under direct supervision, researched and comprehended guidelines; and/or I have recommended actions based on analysis of data from technical reports; and/or I have prepared perpetual audits. I have reviewed emergency/contingency plans as required by policy; and/or I have updated an established checklist to maintain policy compliance; and/or I have requested clarification on new policies/procedures being implemented in a work area. I have, under limited supervision, read and interpreted regulations and technical materials; and/or I have translated guidelines into specific actions; and/or I have implemented a streamlined procedure which complied with governing regulations/policy. None of the above. 6 The Psychology Technician is responsible for implementing the automated psychology data entry system, including initial implementation of Psychology Data System (PDS) training of all psychology staff, routine data entry and retrieval, automated test scoring and reconciling discrepancies in the files.&nbsp; He/she uploads data to the national database in Central Office and imports/exports zip files on incoming/outgoing inmates. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized the spell/grammar check functions to correct errors on documents; and/or I have assisted in setting up an automated filing system for easy access and retrieval of information; and/or I have ordered office supplies for a variety of common office equipment. I have maintained rosters of employees; and/or I have kept track of the badges distributed in the institution; and/or I have typed information into the database containing assault/death information; and/or I have run Sentry rosters. I have created a database to store employees' training records; and/or I have run National Crime Information Center (NCIC) background checks; and/or I have assisted in creating a slide presentation using a presentations/graphics software. None of the above. 7 The Psychology Technician coordinates the workflow of the office by assuring day-to-day operations are performed in a timely manner.&nbsp; He/she devises new procedures and methods which enhance the overall operation of the department.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have anticipated needs and pre-ordered supplies ahead of schedule; and/or I have submitted work orders; and/or I have screened telephone calls and visitors; and/or I have forwarded mail; and/or I have run inmate rosters. I have maintained an accurate calendar of upcoming meetings; and/or I have scheduled appointments; and/or I have entered callouts for group and individual psychotherapy sessions; and/or I have maintained time and attendance records; and/or I have made hotel arrangements for several conference attendees; and/or I have arranged rental and use of facilities in the community for large meetings; and/or I have scheduled staff for training. I have maintained adequate level of supplies for office; and/or I have ordered furniture and coordinated delivery dates, including the return of any damaged products; and/or I have determined where mail should be forwarded when not addressed to a particular individual; and/or I have maintained manual filing system by filing material/information in a timely manner. None of the above. 8 The Psychology Technician compiles, manages and ensures the security of all psychology files.&nbsp; He/she assists in the establishment of a systematic and resourceful report filing system for all Drug Abuse Program offerings.&nbsp; He/she assists in the coordination and collection of Drug Abuse Program monthly&nbsp;statistical activity reports, and other quarterly and annual reports.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained records on an automated database; and/or I have established alphabetical and/or numerical filing system; and/or I have retrieved files upon request. I have maintained a log of Medical Duty Status (MDS) monthly contacts; and/or I have maintained monthly psychotropic compliance and suicide watch monitoring files; and/or I have maintained monthly reports; and/or I have maintained all other log books within the department. I have maintained inventory of office equipment and supplies; and/or I have established subject matter files; and/or I have cataloged and filed legal reference information; and/or I have maintained records of class and program attendance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).