Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one answer that describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for Accountant positions: Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an U.S. accredited college or university in accounting and/or auditing or in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting (may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law). I have a combination of education/experience - at least 4 years experience in accounting or equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that also included one of the following: 1) 24 semester hours accounting or auditing courses (can be up to 6 hours business law); 2) A certificate as C.P.A. or Certified Internal Auditor, through written exam; or 3) completed requirements for a degree, including substantial course work in accounting/auditing (15 semester hours), but less than 24 semester hours. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience researching, interpreting and applying Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in dealing with accounting and tax problems of a complex Non-profit organization? Answer to this question is required I have used my GAAP experience in assisting others in addressing accounting and tax issues for a complex Non-profit organization. I have used GAAP concepts as a regular part of my current position in addressing accounting and tax issues for a complex Non-profit organization. I am considered an expert and sought after by management to incorporate GAAP concepts when addressing accounting and tax issues for a complex Non-profit organization. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to provide advisory/consultation services to staff and management regarding accounting/tax issues for a complex Non-profit organization? Answer to this question is required I have provided advisory/consultation services to staff and management regarding accounting/tax issues for a complex Non-profit organization. I provide advisory/consultation services to staff and management regarding accounting/tax issues for a complex Non-profit organization as a regular part of my job. I am considered an expert in providing advisory/consultation services to staff and management regarding accounting/tax issues for a complex Non-profit organization. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with non-profit accounting regulations? Answer to this question is required I occasionally use non-profit accounting/tax regulations on my job.. I use non-profit accounting/tax regulations as a regular part of my job. I am considered an expert in non-profit accounting/tax regulations I have no experience with non-profit accounting/tax regulations 6 Which of the statements best describes your knowledge of non-profit regulations as it relates to the accounting process? Answer to this question is required I have limited knowledge of non-profit regulations as it relates to the accounting process. I have moderate knowledge of non-profit regulations as it relates to the accounting process and consider myself competent. I have significant knowledge of non-profit regulations as it relates to the accounting process and consider it one of my strengths. I have extensive knowledge of non-profit regulations as it relates to the accounting process and have mastered the skill. None of the above. 7 Choose the statement that best describes your knowledge of the Federal appropriation law as it relates to the accounting process. Answer to this question is required I have limited knowledge of Federal appropriation law as it relates to the accounting process. I have moderate knowledge of Federal appropriation law as it relates to the accounting process and consider myself competent. I have significant knowledge of Federal appropriation law as it relates to the accounting process and consider it one of my strengths. I have extensive knowledge of Federal appropriation law as it relates to the accounting process and have mastered the skill. None of the above. 8 Do you keep abreast of changes in appropriation law rules and regulations such as Treasury Financial Management (TFM) updates; Treasury process changes; GTAS implementation, etc. on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Choose the answers that best describe the types of financial laws and regulations you use (or have used) with a work environment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Treasury regulations Office of Management and Budget business rules for intra-governmental transactions. Office of Management and Budget Circulars and Bulletins, especially OMB -01-02 “Audit Requirements for Federal Financial Statements: and OMB 01-09 “Form and Content of Agency Financial Statements: General Accounting Office guidance, e.g. Governmental Auditing Standards (Yellow Book) Internal Control Standards Federal Appropriation Law, Comptroller General Decisions Government Standard General Ledger Financial management legislation, including the CFO Act of 1990, the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act, the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act. OMB Circulars, e.g. A-123 “Management Accountability and Control” and A-127 “Policies and Standards for Financial Management Systems” Financial Accounting Standards Board policies and procedures. Other financial laws and regulations. None of the above 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with researching financial guidance on non-profit accounting/tax issues? Answer to this question is required I occasionally perform research on financial guidance on non-profit accounting/tax financials issues regulations as a regular part of my job. I perform research on financial guidance on non-profit accounting/tax regulations as a regular part of my job. I am considered an expert in performing research on financial guidance on non-profit accounting/tax regulations. I have no experience performing research on financial guidance on non-profit accounting/tax regulations. 11 Which of the following statements describes your work experience in the accounting field? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Accounts receivable, including billing and collection processes. Accounts payable, including payments processes and expense recognition. Cost accounting, including cost accounting standards and requirements. Budget, including the federal budget formulation and execution process and budgetary accounting. Revenue, including revenue recognition for reimbursable agreements, contribution income, revolving funds and user fees. Reporting, including regulatory reporting requirements, GTAS reporting, monthly Treasury reconciliations, federal year-end closing package. Property, plant, and equipment, including construction-in-progress, plant and facilities, movable equipment, and depreciation. None of the above 12 Which of the following statements reflects your experience with and knowledge of financial management principals and policies? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Experience leading quality assurance reviews internally and conjunction with external parties in accordance with the General Accepted Audit Standard (GAAS) Experience using General Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), General Accepted Audit Standard(GAAS), Security Exchange Commission (SEC) disclosure requirements, Government Accounting Standard (GAS) and Federal Accounting Standards (FAS) in conducting financial management. Experience with government and/or private sector accounting techniques, principles, practices, procedures including internal controls. Experience with program financial management, including project accounting and reporting, financial management improvement program, government project accounting and reporting system, and debt obligation tracking and monitoring. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience applying generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)? Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting in analyzing financial statements and assessing the appropriate usage of accounting and financial management practices on profit-generating programs and/or organizations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. I have experience independently analyzing financial statements and assessing the appropriate usage of accounting and financial management practices on profit-generating programs and/or organizations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. I have experience independently analyzing financial statements and assessing the appropriate usage of accounting and financial management practices on not-for-profit programs and/or organizations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. I have experience assisting in analyzing financial statements and assessing the appropriate usage of accounting and financial management practices on not-for-profit programs and/or organizations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. None of the above. 14 Which of the following describe your knowledge and experience analyzing and interpreting financial data? Answer to this question is required Documenting and explaining comparative analysis of general ledger balances. Determining appropriate reports to analyze and resolve account discrepancies. Working with propriety and budgeting accounting in the Federal Government. Performing analysis to determine abnormal trends. Working with subsidiary systems (i.e., procurement, travel, labor, bankcard, accounts receivable, and accounts payable) that interface with the General Ledger System. Reviewing, analyzing, maintaining, and reconciling subsidiary and general ledgers. Reviewing, analyzing, maintaining, agency deposits and funds administration. Processing refunds and disbursements. Performing analysis and special reviews to ensure integrity of accounting systems. Reconciling payroll interfaces. Reconciling labor cost reports. Reconciling employee activity reports. Taking corrective action to reconcile accounting errors. Working in an automated accounting system performing financial management activities. Received training in professinal accounting principles, theories, concepts, and techniques. Received training in analyzing and interpreting financial data. None of the above. 15 Which of the following describe your knowledge and experience analyzing, testing, interpreting, accessing and updating accounting information in an automated accounting system? Answer to this question is required Working with a compliant Core Financial System. Identifying financial system problems through analysis and recommending corrective action. Applying independent judgment to determine if systems conform to, and are consistent with, accounting principles. Utilizing automated tools, separate from an accounting system, to perform analysis. Recommending corrective action when system weaknesses are discovered. Recommending corrective action when problems with data are discovered. Understanding of internal controls and identifying adequate and deficient controls. Utilizing various tools to conduct analysis of financial information. Reviewing computerized data output and verify with manual data input. Providing training to co-workers on automated financial systems. Providing training to management on automated financial systems. Assisting co-workers with Federal financial system error messages. Assisting co-workers with non-Federal financial system error messages. Working in other automated accounting systems. Completed course work or formal training in the computer field. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience examining, analyzing, and interpreting accounting data, records, and reports? Answer to this question is required I have examined, analyzed, and interpreted accounting data, records, and reports and applied accounting standards and requirements as a regular part of my job. I have limited experience examining, analyzing, and interpreting accounting data, records, and reports, and applying accounting standards and requirements. I have assisted others with examining, analyzing and interpreting accounting data, records, and reports. None of the above. 17 Which of the following statements best describes your experience performing on-line financial system and reconciliations to the general ledger, processing transactions using accounting system applications, preparing a US general ledger, and working with fixed asset accounts? Answer to this question is required I have experience performing on-line financial system and reconciliations to the general ledger, processing transactions using accounting system applications, preparing a US general ledger, and working with fixed asset accounts I have experience performing on-line financial system and reconciliations to the general ledger, processing transactions using accounting system applications, preparing a US general ledger I have experience assisting others in performing on-line financial system and reconciliations to the general ledger, processing transactions using accounting system applications, preparing a US general ledger, and working with fixed asset accounts None of the above. 18 Which of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary and budgetary accounts? Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary and budgetary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger, and processing transactions using an automated accounting system in both the Federal government and private sector. I have experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary and budgetary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger, and processing transactions using an automated accounting system in the Federal government. I have experience analyzing and reconciling proprietary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger, and processing transactions using an automated accounting system in the private sector. I have assisted others with reconciling proprietary accounts, preparing reconciliations to the general ledger, and processing transactions using an automated accounting system None of the above. 19 What is your level of education and/or training with financial management automated systems and processes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have taken a basic course or had some formal training in Excel. I have taken an intermediate course in Excel. I have taken an advanced course in Excel. I have taken a basic course in financial management. I have taken a basic course or had some formal training in a financial management system (such as ERP). I have taken an intermediate course in the use of a financial management system (such as ERP) that included reconciling accounts, tracking income and expenditures, and preparing standard reports. I have taken an advanced course in the use of a financial management system (such as ERP) that included setting up accounts and preparing specialized reports. I have not had any of the above education or training. 20 Please identify the automated financial management systems you are proficient with (proficiency means you understand and have utilized a major part of the systems functionality/capabilities). Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required PeopleSoft Quickbooks Oracle Crystal Reports Electronic spreadsheet application (Excel) None of the above 21 Choose the statement that best describes your experience to serve as a staff expert in the resolution of accounting system problems arising from changes in legislation and changes in the status of program requirements. Answer to this question is required I have limited knowledge in the resolution of accounting system problems arising from changes in legislation and changes in the status of program requirements. I have moderate knowledge in the resolutions of accounting system problems arising from changes in legislation and changes in the status of program requirements and consider myself competent. I have significant knowledge in the resolution of accounting system problems arising from changes in legislation and changes in the status of program requirements and consider it one of my strengths. I have extensive knowledge in the resolution of accounting system problems arising from changes in legislation and changes in the status of program requirements and have mastered this skill. None of the above. 22 Which of the following describe your knowledge and/or experience in written communication? Answer to this question is required I have experience providing written expert opinion on proper accounting and/or analysis of complex accounting issues. I have experience developing written products of complex financial operations. I have experience developing financial policy and procedures. I have experience preparing financial technical operating instructions. I have experience gathering data and organizing it to be presented. I have experience writing technical reports, letters, and memorandums. I have experience writing non-technical reports, memos and routine office memorandums. I have experience writing desk procedures in draft for review. I have experience developing automated accounting instructions and procedures for routine transactions. I have experience preparing reports and statements that contain timely, accurate, and essential financial management information. I have experience preparing test scenarios for new releases and conducting actual testing and documenting results. I have experience preparing external financial management reports, statements, supporting schedules, justifications, and related documentation. I have experience preparing responses to audit recommendations. I have completed course work or formal training in written communication. None of the above. 23 Which of the following statements describes your experience relating to communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating information to groups or individuals in order to instruct, or persuade regarding activities or programs. I have experience conducting formal training sessions on technical matters. I have experience representing management in meetings. I have experience representing management at conferences. I have experience conducting informal training to others on an individual basis. I have experience presenting policies to internal and external individuals or groups. I have experience communicating information via the telephone. I have experience resolving conflicts, complaints, and problems in person or on the telephone. I have completed course work or formal training in communication skills. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.