Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to plan and execute educational programs and events by applying the basic principles, concepts, and methodologies of events planning and management. ** Applied the principles, concepts, and methodologies of events planning in leading the planning, implementation, marketing, and evaluation of meetings, programs, conferences, training classes, seminars, workshops, and briefings for individuals and groups. Answer to this question is required As the primary job duty, led the planning, implementation, marketing, and evaluation of all aspects of multiple, highly complex public policy meetings, programs, conferences, training classes, seminars, workshops, and briefings for a government agency, professional association, corporation, or think tank. These events had constantly changing circumstances and short time frames, and involved intricate negotiations, budgets, multiple and high level speakers, complex logistics (e.g., catering, venue, registration, accommodations), and security issues. As a regular job duty, led the planning, implementation, marketing, and evaluation of most aspects of moderately complex meetings, programs, conferences, training classes, seminars, workshops, and briefings for a government agency, professional association, corporation, or think tank. These events involved negotiations and budget issues, multiple speakers, and complex logistics (e.g., catering, venue, registration, accommodations). Occasionally led the planning, implementation, marketing, and evaluation of some aspects of moderately complex meetings, programs, conferences, training classes, seminars, workshops, and briefings for a government agency, professional association, corporation, or think tank. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to supervise. ** Fostered an environment in which a positive and professional service orientation was evident to clients, managers, and others by recognizing their needs, putting those needs first, and maintaining a professional image. Exercised a range of supervisory responsibilities including 1) planning and assigning work; 2) setting and adjusting short-term work priorities; 3) coordinating complex scheduling to ensure extended coverage of a customer service operation; 4) evaluating work performance; 5) interviewing and/or making recommendations to a manager regarding staff needs and hiring objectives; 6) providing mentoring, advice and counsel to staff; 7) relating organizational policies and procedures to staff; 8) recommending training and professional development opportunities for staff; 9) finding methods to improve staff productivity; and 10) handling minor disagreements, complaints, or other work-related problems among staff. Answer to this question is required Served in a supervisory capacity and, in so doing, performed all of the supervisory responsibilities listed above. Served in a supervisory capacity and, in so doing, performed seven of the supervisory responsibilities listed above. Served as a project team leader and, in so doing, performed five of the supervisory responsibilities listed above. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes. ** Knowledge of the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes. This includes an understanding of different congressional offices and their staffing structure, as well as an understanding of congressional committee and subcommittee structure. This also includes knowledge of the institutional and political environment in which congressional decision-making occurs. Answer to this question is required Acquired expert knowledge of the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes through work, volunteer experience, academic experience, or equivalent experience. Acquired knowledge of the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes through work, volunteer experience, academic experience, or equivalent experience. Acquired familiarity with the U.S. Congress and its legislative processes through work, volunteer experience, academic experience, or equivalent experience. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to convey information orally through briefings and other presentations. Conveyed analysis and information orally through 1) briefings, 2) consultations, and 3) other presentations in both planned and extemporaneous situations in order to discuss or explain management issues (including budget, staffing, process improvements, etc.) and/or event proposals, status, and evaluation. Answer to this question is required Routinely consulted with, briefed, and made presentations to decision makers in a government agency, corporation, or professional association on complex management AND event related matters (e.g., defended an outreach proposal to CEO or board members; advocated an innovative program to agency, company or association executives; proposed a major technology change with resource implications for the organization). Settings were often unstructured and included those requiring responses to questions without the benefit of obtaining additional information or support. Routinely made presentations to decision makers in a government agency, corporation, or professional association on complex event related matters (e.g., presented event plans for large annual conferences for approval). Settings included those that were unstructured. Occasionally made presentations to decision makers in a government agency, corporation, or professional association on event related matters (e.g., delivered a presentation on the evaluation of a complex program, seminar, or event). None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 11 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).