Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Applicants applying for the GS-11 grade level, MUST also possess one of the following Selective Placement Factors. In the event you do not possess one of these Selective Placement Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. From the choices below, select the factor you possess. NOTE: The Skills Program targets inmates with cognitive limitations and/or mental illnesses which negatively impact their ability to acquire life skills. Answer to this question is required I have 15 semester hours of undergraduate course work specific to antisocial behaviors, substance abuse, mental retardation, and/or mental illness. NOTE: All applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. I have 18 months of professional experience in the psychological treatment of antisocial behaviors, substance abuse, and/or mental illness. NOTE: All applicants MUST clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. I do not possess either Selective Placement Factor. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Specialty Treatment Program Specialist (SKILLS Program) must provide psychological treatment interventions in group and individual settings. They will apply new assessment and treatment techniques to develop rapport and facilitate progress toward treatment goals during psychotherapy sessions with inmates. During group therapy sessions, they must monitor individual behavior and facilitate the group process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made final determinations of treatment(s) required for the individuals and implemented appropriate treatment plans; and/or I have facilitated groups with oversight responsibility of program operations in a correctional or non-correctional environment; and/or I have provided individual and group counseling. I have provided crisis counseling to inmates in a diversion program; and/or I have conducted a group for dually diagnosed individuals in a drug abuse treatment program; and/or I have provided individual or group psychotherapy with full responsibility for implementation of associated treatment plans. I have trained others in individual and group counseling techniques; and/or I have facilitated a group of individuals with adjustment issues associated with psychological problems such as social skill deficits, difficulty completing activities of daily living, and problem solving skills and/or; and/or I have provided evidence based practices such as social skills training, supported employment, or behavioral interventions to inmates with intellectual. I have provided group or individual cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy to a non-correctional population, such as individual psychotherapy for treatment of a DSM-IV Axis I mental disorder, an interpersonal process group, or a DSM-IV disorder-based group (e.g., PSUDs, PTSD, DDs); and/or I have provided training to staff on evidence-based group or individual treatment techniques; and/or I have administered assessments as part of full psychological evaluations. I have trained others in treating SKILLS Program inmates using evidence-based individual or group psychotherapy techniques; and/or I have currently licensed or certified by an accredited profession to provide psychotherapy services. None of the above. 5 Specialty Treatment Program Specialists (SKILLS Program) must understand the nature of the disorders/behavior problems to effectively plan and implement treatment for the identified inmate population. They must possess knowledge of the facts, concepts, principles and theories of human behavior and disorders/behavior problems and the associated psychological and social problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed routine screenings for referrals to appropriate treatment settings; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine individual needs for support services such as medical or housing services; and/or I have performed routine screening to determine if psychological testing is required. I have conducted clinical intake interviews of offenders in a residential treatment program and developed treatment plans based upon the information obtained in the interviews; and/or I have performed comprehensive psycho-social evaluations on individuals that resulted in specific treatment plans. I have used a standardized interview to make a provisional DSM-IV diagnosis; and/or I have administered standardized psychological assessments; and/or I have formally evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness of admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have used a psycho-social interview to developed evidence-based treatment plans for those assessed. I have performed a standardized interview to determine an individual's referral for treatment; and/or I have used structured interview techniques and provided provisional mental health diagnosis using the American Psychiatric Association's (APA) Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5). None of the above. 6 Specialty Treatment Program Specialists (SKILLS Program) must demonstrate the ability to write comprehensive clinical reports for treatment planning, treatment progress reports and discharge summaries. These reports help to ensure continuity of care when inmates move to the care of United States Probation, Community Based Treatment Providers, and Residential Re-entry Centers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a portion of a comprehensive assessment for inclusion in a final report; and/or I have prepared psychological assessments as an intern or limited-license practitioner; and/or I have written treatment plans for review; and/or I have summarized psychological histories based on self-reported information; and/or I have documented clinical treatment contacts. I have prepared clinical intake interviews with a summary of the interview outcome for supervisor's review; and/or I have completed summaries of psycho-social histories; and/or I have completed draft treatment plans; and/or I have documented clinical notes resulting from treatment screenings. I have prepared comprehensive psycho-social assessments which determined specific treatment needs of individuals; and/or I have developed treatment plans from psychologist's test interpretation; and/or I have prepared forensic reports; and/or I have developed and prepared discharge summaries for the court and/or other community supervision or treatment agency. None of the above. 7 Specialty Treatment Program Specialists (SKILL Program) requires effective communication skills in order to provide individual and group psychotherapy to inmates, interview and assess inmates entering the program, and clearly explain program requirements, procedures and treatment plans with participants. They also presents programming to the institution executive staff, line staff, and community providers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-facilitated training for staff on managing mentally ill inmates/clients in restrictive housing; and/or I have collaborated with a psychologist to train work cadre supervisors on supported employment for mentally ill/intellectually impaired inmates/clients; and/or I have co-presented at a staff recall on effective interactions with cognitively impaired inmates/clients. I have provided training to staff on managing mentally ill inmates/clients in restrictive housing; and/or I have trained work cadre supervisors on supported employment for mentally ill/intellectually impaired inmates/clients; and/or I have presented at a staff recall on effective interactions with cognitively impaired inmates/clients. I have discussed specific strategies for managing mentally ill inmates/clients with staff; and/or I have provided information to work cadre supervisors on supported employment interventions for mentally ill/intellectually impaired inmates/clients; and/or I have facilitated an educational group for inmates on managing mental illness. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).