Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Indicate the choice that best describes your experience applying principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience applying principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. With supervision from a senior employee or supervisor, I have applied routine principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. I have independently without supervision from a senior employee or supervisor applied principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. I have independently without supervision from a senior employee or supervisor applied complex principles, practices and methods of budget formulation to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limits. 5 Which of the following budget formulation activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare annual budget and planning requests. Identify and study program and budget problems requiring resolution. Provide detailed information supporting the summary information contained in the justification. Applies strategies to analyze financial statements and uses related information in budget preparation. Uses guidelines for establishing effective budget objectives. Identifies the appropriate budgeting strategy for the applicable situation. Gathers information on prior year(s) spending, projected funding/resource needs (i.e., salaries/benefits; capital, operating and other expenses) and budget priorities to facilitate timely development of budget requests and supporting justifications. Helps determine priorities and weigh alternative strategies. Considers timing / milestones in the budget cycle. Identifies need for an inter-agency, intra-agency (IAA) or cooperative research and development agreement(CRADA)/renewal, or memorandum of understanding(MOU). Researches and resolves discrepancies in budget information. Enters, manages, and maintains / updates data in a timely and accurate manner utilizing applicable resources. Ensures that data in accounting and financial management systems are current. Recognizes differences in fund sources and types (e.g., appropriated, non-appropriated / gift funds), and applies established Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). None of the above. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience developing annual budgets and/or multiyear program estimates? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing annual budgets and/or multi-year program estimates. I have education or training in developing annual budgets and/or mult-iyear program estimates, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs estimates as a regular part of my job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing annual budgets and/or multi-year programs having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Please indicate which of the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the Strategic/Tactical Planning process. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units/organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Recommended the allocation of resources. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets/forecasting. Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best reflect your ability to perform quantitative analysis and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have formal undergraduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in a work situation. I have formal graduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in work situations. I have formal education / training and work experience in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Performing quantitative analysis and evaluation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this taks routinely and independently. I have trained others in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 10 From the list below, select the budget preparation and execution tasks you have performed. Answer to this question is required Followed an office budget which has been set by others. Tracked expenditures to monitor office budget compliance. Reconciled reports of obligations and expenditures with authorizations. Provided input used by others to construct an office budget. Independently constructed an office budget, which was adopted for use by your employer. Constructed a program budget, which was adopted for use by Program Manager. None of the above. 11 Which of the following budget execution activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare recurring reports to ensure execution of budget is in accordance with regulations. Provide technical guidance to program managers to ensure budget inputs are in compliance with regulations. Evaluate the effect of changes in program plans on the accomplishment of organization's budget and program milestones. Conduct mid-year budget reviews to advise program managers of potential issues with planned projects. Translate program goals and objectives in terms of dollar costs in budget forecasts. Review budget estimates and reports to develop budgetary forecasts for long-range resource analysis. Coordinate with other Federal agencies on activities requiring access to financial requirements on the program and budget data. Advise managers on the effects budgetary changes may have on program operations. Monitor funds availability in order to make recommendations to program managers for funding approval of current projects. Monitor accounting reports to ensure availability of funds for execution of program budget. Identify the need for reprogramming between budget accounts and/or organizations. De-obligate monies. None of the above. 12 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Skill in administering and monitoring expenditures to ensure cost-effective support of programs and policies: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Please indicate which of the following types of activities/ tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Developed financial data to support the negotiation of reimbursable agreements. Estimated the recommended reimbursement levels for services to be provided. Written conditions included in Memorandums of Agreement and Understanding (MOAs/MOUs). Negotiated agreements within the agency. Negotiated agreements between agencies / organizations. Negotiated third party contracts with service providers. Managed services and costs provided under a reimbursable agreement. None of the above 15 Please identify the following with which you have knowledge or experience. Answer to this question is required Appropriations Law Prompt Payment Act Debt Collection Act (DCIA) Foreign Affairs Manual OMB Circulars Federal Travel Regulations Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) Internal controls Financial oversight / compliance Due diligence reviews None of the above 16 Please indicate which of the following activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Identifying and resolving complex funding inquiries from automated financial or budgetary systems. Resolving conflicts between program goals, objectives, resource requirements, budgetary policies, objectives, and constraints. Analyzing accounting data from internal and/or external sources to confirm the propriety of charges. Developing indicators to measure program performance. Preparing or recommending annual financial plans to allot funds in support of program objectives. Participating in the negotiation of reimbursement agreements with other public and/or private agencies. Developing recommendations for budgetary adjustments (e.g., reprogramming) to support unanticipated changes in program operations and/or funding. None of the above. 17 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of training and/or experience in managing projects / programs? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet managed projects / programs in work situations. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in managing projects / programs. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for the program. I have no formal education / training in this area but I have work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have no formal education / training in this area but I have work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no experience, formal training, or education managing projects / programs 18 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with automated financial management systems or software? Answer to this question is required I am a user of a system. As a user I have participated in testing a new automated system or an existing system. I have participated in implementing a new automated system or enhancing an existing system. I led implementation of a new automated system or enhancement of an existing system. None of the Above 19 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of knowledge of computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training with computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. I have completed formal education or training in computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning has been a central or major part of my work. I have used computer systems and software routinely and independently. I have trained others in using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning and (or) others have consulted me as an expert. 20 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 21 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings Work groups One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Testimony None of the above 22 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Indicate the choice that best describes your experience applying principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience applying principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. With supervision from a senior employee or supervisor, I have applied routine principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. I have independently without supervision from a senior employee or supervisor applied principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. I have independently without supervision from a senior employee or supervisor applied complex principles, practices and methods of budget formulation to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limits. 4 Which of the following budget formulation activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare annual budget and planning requests. Identify and study program and budget problems requiring resolution. Provide detailed information supporting the summary information contained in the justification. Applies strategies to analyze financial statements and uses related information in budget preparation. Uses guidelines for establishing effective budget objectives. Identifies the appropriate budgeting strategy for the applicable situation. Gathers information on prior year(s) spending, projected funding/resource needs (i.e., salaries/benefits; capital, operating and other expenses) and budget priorities to facilitate timely development of budget requests and supporting justifications. Helps determine priorities and weigh alternative strategies. Considers timing / milestones in the budget cycle. Identifies need for an inter-agency, intra-agency (IAA) or cooperative research and development agreement(CRADA)/renewal, or memorandum of understanding(MOU). Researches and resolves discrepancies in budget information. Enters, manages, and maintains / updates data in a timely and accurate manner utilizing applicable resources. Ensures that data in accounting and financial management systems are current. Recognizes differences in fund sources and types (e.g., appropriated, non-appropriated / gift funds), and applies established Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). None of the above. 5 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience developing annual budgets and/or multiyear program estimates? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing annual budgets and/or multi-year program estimates. I have education or training in developing annual budgets and/or mult-iyear program estimates, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs estimates as a regular part of my job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing annual budgets and/or multi-year programs having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Please indicate which of the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the Strategic/Tactical Planning process. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units/organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Recommended the allocation of resources. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets/forecasting. Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best reflect your ability to perform quantitative analysis and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have formal undergraduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in a work situation. I have formal graduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in work situations. I have formal education / training and work experience in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Performing quantitative analysis and evaluation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this taks routinely and independently. I have trained others in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 9 From the list below, select the budget preparation and execution tasks you have performed. Answer to this question is required Followed an office budget which has been set by others. Tracked expenditures to monitor office budget compliance. Reconciled reports of obligations and expenditures with authorizations. Provided input used by others to construct an office budget. Independently constructed an office budget, which was adopted for use by your employer. Constructed a program budget, which was adopted for use by Program Manager. None of the above. 10 Which of the following budget execution activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare recurring reports to ensure execution of budget is in accordance with regulations. Provide technical guidance to program managers to ensure budget inputs are in compliance with regulations. Evaluate the effect of changes in program plans on the accomplishment of organization's budget and program milestones. Conduct mid-year budget reviews to advise program managers of potential issues with planned projects. Translate program goals and objectives in terms of dollar costs in budget forecasts. Review budget estimates and reports to develop budgetary forecasts for long-range resource analysis. Coordinate with other Federal agencies on activities requiring access to financial requirements on the program and budget data. Advise managers on the effects budgetary changes may have on program operations. Monitor funds availability in order to make recommendations to program managers for funding approval of current projects. Monitor accounting reports to ensure availability of funds for execution of program budget. Identify the need for reprogramming between budget accounts and/or organizations. De-obligate monies. None of the above. 11 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 13 Skill in administering and monitoring expenditures to ensure cost-effective support of programs and policies: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Please indicate which of the following types of activities/ tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Developed financial data to support the negotiation of reimbursable agreements. Estimated the recommended reimbursement levels for services to be provided. Written conditions included in Memorandums of Agreement and Understanding (MOAs/MOUs). Negotiated agreements within the agency. Negotiated agreements between agencies / organizations. Negotiated third party contracts with service providers. Managed services and costs provided under a reimbursable agreement. None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your experience with budget management? Answer to this question is required I have prepared a budget for a discrete program or project. I have adhered to a budget for a discrete program or project. I have prepared a budget for an office. I have adhered to a budget for an office. I have prepared a budget for a division. I have adhered to a budget for a division. I have no practical experience with budget management. 16 Please indicate which of the following activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Identifying and resolving complex funding inquiries from automated financial or budgetary systems. Resolving conflicts between program goals, objectives, resource requirements, budgetary policies, objectives, and constraints. Analyzing accounting data from internal and/or external sources to confirm the propriety of charges. Developing indicators to measure program performance. Preparing or recommending annual financial plans to allot funds in support of program objectives. Participating in the negotiation of reimbursement agreements with other public and/or private agencies. Developing recommendations for budgetary adjustments (e.g., reprogramming) to support unanticipated changes in program operations and/or funding. None of the above. 17 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of training and/or experience in managing projects/ programs? Answer to this question is required I have formal education / training in this area. However, I have not yet managed projects/ programs in work situations. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in managing projects/ programs. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no experience, formal training, or education managing projects/ programs. 18 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with automated financial management systems or software? Answer to this question is required I am a user of a system As a user I have participated in testing a new automated system or an existing system I have participated in implementing a new automated system or enhancing an existing system. I led implementation of a new automated system or enhancement of an existing system. None of the Above 19 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of knowledge of computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training with computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. I have completed formal education or training in computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning, but have not yet applied it on the job I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning and (or) others have consulted me as an expert 20 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 21 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings Work groups One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Testimony None of the above 22 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Indicate the choice that best describes your experience applying principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience applying principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. With supervision from a senior employee or supervisor, I have applied routine principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. I have independently without supervision from a senior employee or supervisor applied principles, practices and methods of budget formulation. I have independently without supervision from a senior employee or supervisor applied complex principles, practices and methods of budget formulation to determine whether obligations, expenditures and requested allotments are within funding limits. 4 Which of the following budget formulation activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare annual budget and planning requests. Identify and study program and budget problems requiring resolution. Provide detailed information supporting the summary information contained in the justification. Applies strategies to analyze financial statements and uses related information in budget preparation. Uses guidelines for establishing effective budget objectives. Identifies the appropriate budgeting strategy for the applicable situation. Gathers information on prior year(s) spending, projected funding/resource needs (i.e., salaries/benefits; capital, operating and other expenses) and budget priorities to facilitate timely development of budget requests and supporting justifications. Helps determine priorities and weigh alternative strategies. Considers timing / milestones in the budget cycle. Identifies need for an inter-agency, intra-agency (IAA) or cooperative research and development agreement(CRADA)/renewal, or memorandum of understanding(MOU). Researches and resolves discrepancies in budget information. Enters, manages, and maintains / updates data in a timely and accurate manner utilizing applicable resources. Ensures that data in accounting and financial management systems are current. Recognizes differences in fund sources and types (e.g., appropriated, non-appropriated / gift funds), and applies established Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). None of the above. 5 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience developing annual budgets and/or multiyear program estimates? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing annual budgets and/or multi-year program estimates. I have education or training in developing annual budgets and/or mult-iyear program estimates, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs estimates as a regular part of my job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing annual budgets and/or multi-year programs having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Please indicate which of the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the Strategic/Tactical Planning process. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units/organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Recommended the allocation of resources. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets/forecasting. Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best reflect your ability to perform quantitative analysis and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have formal undergraduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in a work situation. I have formal graduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in work situations. I have formal education / training and work experience in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Performing quantitative analysis and evaluation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this taks routinely and independently. I have trained others in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony / Congressional inquiries Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Journal Publications Books Academic papers Research papers Presentations Systems documentation Newsletters Financial reports and analysis Training materials None of the above 9 From the list below, select the budget preparation and execution tasks you have performed. Answer to this question is required Followed an office budget which has been set by others. Tracked expenditures to monitor office budget compliance. Reconciled reports of obligations and expenditures with authorizations. Provided input used by others to construct an office budget. Independently constructed an office budget, which was adopted for use by your employer. Constructed a program budget, which was adopted for use by Program Manager. None of the above. 10 Which of the following budget execution activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare recurring reports to ensure execution of budget is in accordance with regulations. Provide technical guidance to program managers to ensure budget inputs are in compliance with regulations. Evaluate the effect of changes in program plans on the accomplishment of organization's budget and program milestones. Conduct mid-year budget reviews to advise program managers of potential issues with planned projects. Translate program goals and objectives in terms of dollar costs in budget forecasts. Review budget estimates and reports to develop budgetary forecasts for long-range resource analysis. Coordinate with other Federal agencies on activities requiring access to financial requirements on the program and budget data. Advise managers on the effects budgetary changes may have on program operations. Monitor funds availability in order to make recommendations to program managers for funding approval of current projects. Monitor accounting reports to ensure availability of funds for execution of program budget. Identify the need for reprogramming between budget accounts and/or organizations. De-obligate monies. None of the above. 11 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 13 Skill in administering and monitoring expenditures to ensure cost-effective support of programs and policies: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Please indicate which of the following types of activities/ tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Developed financial data to support the negotiation of reimbursable agreements. Estimated the recommended reimbursement levels for services to be provided. Written conditions included in Memorandums of Agreement and Understanding (MOAs/MOUs). Negotiated agreements within the agency. Negotiated agreements between agencies / organizations. Negotiated third party contracts with service providers. Managed services and costs provided under a reimbursable agreement. None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your experience with budget management? Answer to this question is required I have prepared a budget for a discrete program or project. I have adhered to a budget for a discrete program or project. I have prepared a budget for an office. I have adhered to a budget for an office. I have prepared a budget for a division. I have adhered to a budget for a division. I have no practical experience with budget management. 16 Please indicate which of the following activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Identifying and resolving complex funding inquiries from automated financial or budgetary systems. Resolving conflicts between program goals, objectives, resource requirements, budgetary policies, objectives, and constraints. Analyzing accounting data from internal and/or external sources to confirm the propriety of charges. Developing indicators to measure program performance. Preparing or recommending annual financial plans to allot funds in support of program objectives. Participating in the negotiation of reimbursement agreements with other public and/or private agencies. Developing recommendations for budgetary adjustments (e.g., reprogramming) to support unanticipated changes in program operations and/or funding. None of the above. 17 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of training and/or experience in managing projects/ programs? Answer to this question is required I have formal education / training in this area. However, I have not yet managed projects/ programs in work situations. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in managing projects/ programs. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no experience, formal training, or education managing projects/ programs. 18 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with automated financial management systems or software? Answer to this question is required I am a user of a system As a user I have participated in testing a new automated system or an existing system I have participated in implementing a new automated system or enhancing an existing system. I led implementation of a new automated system or enhancement of an existing system. None of the Above 19 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of knowledge of computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training with computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. I have completed formal education or training in computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning, but have not yet applied it on the job I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning and (or) others have consulted me as an expert 20 Which of the following systems and software have you used for financial management and planning? Answer to this question is required Department or agency financial management system Automated allotment system Human resources system Acquisition system Receivables system Reimbursement system Inventory system Asset management system Automated budget formulation system Payroll system None of the above. 21 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings Work groups One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Testimony None of the above 22 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.