Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring the status of interactive exhibition elements, audio-visual displays and Time-based Media Artworks using network-based show-control software, remote access monitoring, and performing regular visual inspections? Answer to this question is required I have experience monitoring the status of interactive exhibition elements, audio-visual displays and Time-based Media Artworks using network-based show-control software, remote access monitoring, and performing regular visual inspections. I have experience monitoring the status of interactive exhibition elements, audio-visual displays using network-based show-control software, remote access monitoring, and performing regular visual inspections. I have experience monitoring the status of interactive exhibition elements, audio-visual displays and Time-based Media Artworks using network-based show-control software. I have experience monitoring the status of interactive exhibition elements, audio-visual displays and Time-based Media Artworks. I have experience monitoring the status of interactive exhibition elements and audio-visual displays. I do not have related experience. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience configuring, programming, operating, and maintaining audio visual show control software to ensure reliable operation of audio visual and time-based media artworks for daily use and special exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have experience configuring, programming, operating, and maintaining audio visual show control software to ensure reliable operation of audio visual and time-based media artworks for daily use and special exhibits. I have experience configuring, programming, operating audio visual and maintaining show control software to ensure reliable operation of audio visual for daily use. I have experience operating and maintaining audio visual and time-based media artworks for daily use and special exhibits. I have experience operating and maintaining audio visual equipment for daily use and special exhibits. I have experience operating audio-visual equipment for daily use. I do not have related experience. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience writing custom scripts, driver software, and OS-based batch files to allow network-based control of various A/V and electronic media art equipment? Answer to this question is required I have experience writing custom scripts, driver software, and OS-based batch files to allow network-based control of various audio visual and electronic media art equipment. I have experience writing custom scripts, and driver software to allow network-based control of various audio visual and electronic media art equipment. I have experience writing custom scripts, driver software, and OS-based batch files to allow network-based communications. I have experience writing custom scripts to allow network-based control of audio-visual equipment. I have experience writing custom scripts. I do not have related experience. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience maintaining the proper working order of kiosk interactives, exhibition displays, networking equipment, and other exhibition elements or fine art objects with integrated IT or electronic components? Answer to this question is required I have experience maintaining the proper working order of kiosk interactives, exhibition displays, networking equipment, and other exhibition elements or fine art objects with integrated IT or electronic components. I have experience maintaining the proper working order of, exhibition displays, networking equipment, and other exhibition elements with integrated IT or electronic components. I have experience maintaining the proper working order exhibition elements or fine art objects with integrated IT or electronic components. I have experience maintaining the proper working order of kiosk interactives, and exhibition displays with integrated IT or electronic components. I have experience maintaining the proper working order of electronic components. I do not have related experience. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience troubleshooting and repairing malfunctioning hardware, software, and investigates whether inappropriate logical configurations are causing the problem? Answer to this question is required I have experience troubleshooting and repairing malfunctioning hardware, software, and investigates whether inappropriate logical configurations are causing the problem. I have experience troubleshooting and repairing malfunctioning hardware and software. I have experience troubleshooting and repairing malfunctioning software. I have experience troubleshooting and repairing malfunctioning hardware. I have experience troubleshooting audio visual equipment. I do not have related experience. 7 Do you have experience diagnosing problems on network equipment and various devices and, if required, recommending a cost-effective solution to supervisors for equipment and services beyond the organization&rsquo;s in-house capabilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following best describes your experience as the primary resource for show control systems, audio, projection, and display technologies? Answer to this question is required I have experience as the primary resource for show control systems, audio, projection, and display technologies. I have experience as the primary resource for show control systems, audio, and projection technologies. I have experience as the primary resource for display and show control systems. I have experience as the primary resource for audio systems. I do not have related experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience producing media content by scanning and sizing images, transcoding, editing existing video footage, and developing new video content? Answer to this question is required I have experience producing media content by scanning and sizing images, transcoding, editing existing video footage, and developing new video content. I have experience producing media content, editing existing video footage and developing new video content. I have experience producing media content by scanning and sizing images, transcoding, editing existing video footage. I have experience producing media content by scanning and sizing images. I have experience scanning and images I do not have related experience. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating with staff ensuring that projects are developed according to established standards for quality and compatibility and that the timing and production demands of each project are quantified and met? Answer to this question is required I have experience coordinating with staff ensuring that projects are developed according to established standards for quality and compatibility and the timing and production demands of each project are quantified and met. I have experience coordinating with staff ensuring that projects are developed according to established standards for quality and compatibility and that the timing demands of each project are met. I have experience coordinating with staff to ensure that the timing demands of each project are met. I have experience ensuring that projects are developed according to established standards for quality and compatibility. I have experience coordinating with staff. I do not have related experience. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience researching, editing, organizing and managing information and media assets for inclusion in gallery interactives? Answer to this question is required I have experience researching, editing, organizing and managing information and media assets for inclusion in gallery interactives. I have experience researching, editing, organizing and managing information and media assets. I have experience editing, organizing and managing information and media assets. I have experience researching information and media assets for inclusion in gallery interactives. I have experience with interactives. I do not have related experience. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience setting up, installing and operating film, 3-D projectors, video projectors, analog and digital sound reinforcement systems, cameras, and other audio-visual equipment? Answer to this question is required I have experience setting up, installing and operating film, 3-D projectors, video projectors, analog and digital sound reinforcement systems, cameras, and other audio-visual equipment. I have experience setting up, installing and operating film video projectors, analog and digital sound reinforcement systems, cameras, and other audio-visual equipment. I have experience setting up, installing and operating film video projectors, analog and digital sound reinforcement systems, and other audio-visual equipment. I have experience setting up, installing and operating film, video projectors and sound reinforcement systems. I have experience setting up, installing and operating film, audio-visual equipment. I do not have related experience. 13 Do you have experience leading the preparation and installation of Time-based Media Art (TBMA) to transform curator and artists' vision into technical reality? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following best describes your experience assisting Exhibit Lighting Specialists (or similar staff) with the regular maintenance and repair of lighting systems, including visual inspections of all exhibition galleries and other public spaces? Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting Exhibit Lighting Specialists (or similar staff) with the regular maintenance and repair of lighting systems, including visual inspections of all exhibition galleries and other public spaces. I have experience with lighting systems and with the regular maintenance and repair of lighting systems, including visual inspections. I have experience assisting Exhibit Lighting Specialists (or similar staff) with the regular maintenance and repair of lighting systems. I have experience with visual inspections of exhibition galleries and other public spaces. I do not have related experience. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience assisting with programing and maintenance of all lighting devices including lighting and AV control system, and associated Bluetooth lighting fixtures and gateways, and lighting devices controlled by protocols including DMX and Modbus? Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting with programing and maintenance of all lighting devices including lighting and AV control system, and associated Bluetooth lighting fixtures and gateways, and lighting devices controlled by protocols including DMX and Modbus? I have experience assisting with programing and maintenance of all lighting devices including lighting and AV control system, and lighting devices controlled by protocols including DMX and Modbus? I have experience with programing and maintenance of AV control systems. I have experience assisting with programing and maintenance of lighting devices. I have experience operating lighting devices. I do not have related experience. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience working with safety staff, security staff, and Exhibit Lighting designers (or similar staff) on the design, installation and maintenance of motion alarm systems? Answer to this question is required I have experience working with safety staff, security staff, and Exhibit Lighting designers (or similar staff) on the design, installation and maintenance of motion alarm systems. I have experience working with safety and security staff on the design, installation and maintenance of motion alarm systems. I have experience working on the installation and maintenance of motion alarm systems. I do not have related experience. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.