Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your education, training, or experience in planning, scheduling, and implementing special events? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task in a museum setting 3 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating logistics for special events involving corporate, government, philanthropic, academic, or foreign diplomatic representatives? (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have work experience coordinating logistics for special events involving one of the following five types of groups: corporate, government, philanthropic, academic, or foreign diplomatic representatives. I have work experience coordinating logistics for special events involving two of the following five types of groups: corporate, government, philanthropic, academic, or foreign diplomatic representatives. I have work experience coordinating logistics for special events involving three of the following five types of groups: corporate, government, philanthropic, academic, or foreign diplomatic representatives. I have not performed any of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your education, training, or experience in collaborating with other departments and/or individual staff (e.g., development, communications) to nurture potential special event opportunities? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to collaborate with other departments, individual staff, and outside organizations to plan and implement special events? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in collaborating with other entities to plan and implement special events. I have received training in collaborating with other entities to plan and implement special events, but not yet performed this task on the job. I have collaborated with other entities to plan and implement special events on the job (under close supervision) by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have collaborated with other entities to plan and implement special events independently (as a regular part of the job) and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have collaborated with other entities to plan and implement special events routinely (as a central or major part of my work). I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best describes your education, training, or experience in researching requirements for special events? This includes securing location, procuring caterers, florist, and audio visual services; developing invitation lists, conceptualizing event themes and programs, preparing itineraries and briefing materials, and coordinating security and facilities support. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your ability to complete bidding, procurement and contracts for catering, AV, floral, and equipment rental services in relation to special events? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in completing bidding, procurement and contracts for services. I have received training in completing bidding, procurement and contracts for services related to special events but have not performed this task on the job. I have completed bidding, procurement and contracts for services related to special events on the job, under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance. I have completed bidding, procurement and contracts for services related to special events independently, as a regular part of my job and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have planned, scheduled and implemented special events routinely, as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Do you have experience arranging catering for a special event by selecting a variety of menu items to accommodate attendees, contacting vendors, negotiating pricing, etc.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your experience with interpersonal communication in an organizational setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups (both internal and external). I have initiated and maintained contact with high level or strategically significant individuals outside the organization. I have participated in executive/high-level meetings to determine organizational priorities and develop strategies to achieve goals. I have explained technical or other complex information to a wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, or alternative viewpoints. I have served on pan-institutional committees or participated in meetings as a representative of my unit or organization with the purpose of evaluating organizational effectiveness. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discussed issues and options available with program managers. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management's views to them, and identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at Smithsonian-wide briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance, and knowledge. I have not performed any of the above functions. 10 Which of the following statements describe your ability to communicate orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have orally presented ideas and decisions to internal and external contacts. I have explained and/or interpreted facts orally such as conducting tours of facilities and explaining the work performed by the organization. I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have completed college level courses in such subjects as speech or public speaking. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 11 Which of the following statement(s) describe the written communication/briefing skills you have used to convey information? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive materials for reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials. I have compiled text and images from various sources and edited cohesive reports that are well-organized and appropriate for the intended audience. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in writing. I have not performed any of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience with various components of special events? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in developing the theme/programming of special events. I have assisted in identifying speakers appropriate for special events. I have worked on identifying entertainment for special events I have developed and compiled guest lists. I have designed, printed or distributed invitations. I have tracked invites and acceptances. I have worked with special events staff to insure all of the logistical elements are in place for the event. I have prepared written follow-up acknowledgment letters. I have not performed any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.