Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement; HOWEVER, I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, AND I was not previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( I.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Accounting Technicians have frequent contact with vendors, co-workers, subordinates, institution department heads, personnel at other institutions, higher level administration within the Bureau, Department of Justice auditors, inmates, general public, local and, although infrequent, foreign government officials. They provide and exchange information regarding a variety of accounting transactions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have initiated contact and offered explanation for questions regarding travel voucher; and/or I have resolved and explained discrepancy when vendor does not receive payment; and/or I have explained account activity reports to inmates. I have advised supervisor of an issue concerning work; and/or I have explained account information to a department head; and/or I have contacted vendor to request copy of invoice or proof of delivery. I have provided general information to visitor; and/or I have provided project update during department meeting; and/or I have addressed general concerns/complaints from staff and other customers. None of the above. 5 Accounting Technicians must be able to effectively communicate in writing. They may have contact with vendors, inmates, staff, department heads, administrative staff, and others where it is necessary to respond in writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared non-sensitive correspondence in conformance to regulations and format; and/or I have prepared a written lesson plan for financial training sessions; and/or I have participated in a program or operational review and documented specific findings; and/or I have prepared general response to a vendor regarding an accounting procedure for higher level signature. I have, as directed, prepared minutes and notes from internal department staff meetings; and/or I have gathered and prepared responses, for review to inquiry from an inmate's family; and/or I have prepared a written response to an Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have prepared monthly sales reports. I have prepared rough draft for comments in correspondence regarding policy change; and/or I have prepared agendas for budget or financial office meetings; and/or I have composed and sent e-mail correspondence. None of the above. 6 Accounting Technicians must have a knowledge of disbursements and fund accounting methods used in maintaining, balancing, and closing sub-accounts in an accounting system. They must adhere to the standards of the U.S. Treasury Department, the General Accounting Office, Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Justice, and the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured all required external reports were completed by required dates, as directed; and/or I have with assistance, followed existing office procedures when maintaining open accounts payable balances; and/or I have maintained batch records according to established guidelines as directed. I have compiled and examined reports to confirm transactions were accepted in computer system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly. I have adhered to the Prompt Payment Act when submitting payments; and/or I have, as directed in policy, reconciled and balanced a variety of cash, draft, and credit card accounts; and/or I have conducted transactions with other various Federal Government agencies utilizing Treasury's Inter-governmental Payment and Collection System. None of the above. 7 Accounting Technicians must apply a variety of accounting procedures in preparing, processing, and maintaining accounts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have certified payment vouchers for correct data and funding sources; and/or I have prepared billings to public, state, and government agencies; and/or I have conducted research and follow-up on all past due billings and initiated debt collection procedures, when necessary. I have, with assistance, reviewed audit trails and internal controls; and/or I have checked daily accounting reports to ensure transactions were processed; and/or I have, with assistance, researched applicable policies or guidelines when faced with questionable accounting issues. I have analyzed obligation documents to determine proper obligation type; and/or I have ensured adequate funding for all obligations and payments; and/or I have advised management when funding inadequacies are noted. None of the above. 8 Accounting Technicians are responsible for processing accounting documents and maintaining files. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have maintained case files in a law office; and/or I have organized a small office records/filing system; and/or I have sorted and distributed incoming source documents. I have established checklists for monitoring individual files; and/or I have organized, maintained and monitored open accounts payable files; and/or I have processed and filed payment vouchers. I have maintained established files, adding topics/files as needed; and/or I have pulled medical records for patent appointments; and/or I have maintained pending files for various functions. None of the above. 9 Accounting Technicians enter, correct, and retrieve accounting data using the Financial Management Information System (FMIS). They use various office equipment such as the personal computer, typewriter, calculator, fax machines, copy machine, scanner machine and other small equipment. They are required to utilize a variety of automated programs and systems to effectively accomplish assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized agency computer programs; and/or I have used various menus to retrieve accounting documents; and/or I have adjusted accounts maintained in the system. I have used grammar check for documents; and/or I have assisted in setting up an automated filing system for easy access/retrieval of information; and/or I have ordered office supplies for a variety of common office equipment. I have utilized spell checker, macro, and file manager in Word Perfect; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Accounting Technicians have contact with vendors, co-workers, subordinates, institution department heads, personnel at other institutions, higher level administration within the Bureau, Department of Justice auditors, inmates, general public, with local and, although infrequent, foreign government officials. They provide and exchange information regarding a variety of accounting transactions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exchanged information with regulatory personnel to effect financial policy implementation; and/or I have contacted vendors in regards to any billing discrepancies identified prior to payment; and/or I have provided in-house training on accounting procedures to staff; and/or I have contacted staff to explain policy in regards to travel advances and travel settlements. I have assisted in responses to inmate's inquiry regarding his/her account; and/or I have explained account information to a department head; and/or I have contacted vendor to request copy of invoice or proof of delivery. I have responded to questions regarding travel vouchers; and/or I have resolved discrepancies when vendors did not receive payment; and/or I have explained account activity reports to inmates. None of the above. 5 Accounting Technicians must be able to effectively communicate in writing. They may have contact with vendors, inmates, staff, department heads, administrative staff, and others where it is necessary to respond in writing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an inmate incident report; and/or I have prepared a written response to an Inmate Request to Staff Member; and/or I have prepared monthly sales reports. I have prepared written correspondence from a vendor questioning an accounting policy for higher-level signature; and/or I have prepared memorandums identifying and recommending procedural changes to improve operations of the department/office; and/or I have prepared monthly status reports with memorandum of explanation. I have prepared a written lesson plan for training sessions; and/or I have participated in a program or operational review and documented specific findings in writing; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings or other gatherings. None of the above. 6 Accounting Technicians must have a knowledge of disbursements and fund accounting methods used in maintaining balancing and closing sub-accounts in an accounting system. They must adhere to the standards of the U.S. Treasury Department, the General Accounting Office, Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Justice, and the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have compiled and examined reports to confirm transactions were accepted in the system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly into the system. I have ensured proper guidelines were followed; and/or I have adhered to the Prompt Payment Act when submitting payments; and/or I have reconciled and balanced a variety of cash, draft, and credit card accounts; and/or I have conducted transactions with other various Federal Government agencies utilizing Treasury's Inter-governmental Payment and Collection System. I have frequently researched regulations, procedures and guidelines and interpreted those for on-the-job use; and/or I have reconciled various account balances to U.S. Treasury records monthly; and/or I have ensured obligation amounts (accounts payable) did not exceed available fund balances; and/or I have adjusted open accounts payable balances as corresponded payments were made; and/or I have referenced Federal Appropriations Law and the U.S. Code for legality of expenditures. None of the above. 7 Accounting Technicians must apply a variety of accounting procedures in preparing, processing, and maintaining accounts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed Standard General Ledger account balances for accuracy; and/or I have prepared transactions for reporting on the Standard Form (SF-224); and/or I have conducted internal audits of department's accounting records; and/or I have determined all applicable Prompt Payment Act provisions were properly invoked. I have certified payment vouchers for correct data and funding sources; and/or I have prepared billings to public, state, and government agencies; and/or I have conducted follow-up on all past due billings and initiated debt collection procedures, when necessary. I have analyzed obligation documents to determine proper obligation type; and/or I have ensured adequate funding for all obligations and payments; and/or I have advised management when funding inadequacies are noted. None of the above. 8 Accounting Technicians are responsible for processing accounting documents and maintaining files. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained established case files, adding topics/files as needed; and/or I have organized a small office records/filing system; and/or I have maintained pending files for various functions; and/or I have sorted and distributed incoming source documents. I have established new record system which enabled co-workers/supervisors to retrieve files easily; and/or I have processed large volumes of transactions, vouchers, and purchase orders; and/or I have established, organized, and maintained concise obligation records in a manner which allowed the information to be easily retrieved; and/or I have maintained controls for all expenditures. I have used established checklists for individual files; and/or I have maintained case files in a law office; and/or I have maintained and monitored open accounts payable files, processed and filed payment vouchers. None of the above. 9 Accounting Technicians enter, correct, and retrieve accounting data using the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) as well as several other on-line systems. They also use various office equipment such as the personal computer, adding machine, and other small equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized agency computer programs; and/or I have used various menus to retrieve accounting documents; and/or I have adjusted accounts maintained in the system. I have maintained an established database to track information; and/or I have prepared and interpreted financial reports for management; and/or I have developed detailed spreadsheets using LOTUS and/or other computer software; and/or I have created data bases for tracking expenditures and allotments. I have utilized spell checker, macro, and file manager in Word Perfect; and/or I have keyed budget or accounting data to produce reports; and/or I have operated check endorser. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).