Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please describe your skill in leading a large and complex facility management program to include functions such as facilities asset management, facilities project management,&nbsp; transportation and logistics, and energy and utilities management. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Please describe your knowledge and skill in executive level program planning, budgetary process, and resource management including developing program/performance tracking and upward reporting systems and establishing results-based performance measures. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please describe your interpersonal and communication skills to build relationships and negotiate solutions that address varied and complex, and occasionally opposing interests among varied audiences. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Please describe your skills in leading, supervising, and managing a multi-disciplinary and talented workforce, including fostering teamwork and high morale, as well as attracting, retaining, and motivating employees. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.