Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you installed or repaired marble objects as part of your job? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you installed or repaired granite objects as part of your job? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you installed or repaired limestone objects as part of your job? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you installed or repaired marble, granite or limestone objects without daily supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following have you performed with marble, granite, limestone, or similar stone? Answer to this question is required Cleaning and polishing Cutting Drilling Patching and grinding Pointing and grouting joints Refinishing Setting None of these 6 Complete the following sentence accurately: "I have constructed the stone elements of a ________ from start to finish." Answer to this question is required driveway floor kick panel lintel partition shelf sill veneer walkway wall window door opening None of these 7 Which of the following have you used on a regular basis in order to effect repairs or install materials? Answer to this question is required Building plans Construction blueprints Engineering drawings Material data safety sheet (MSDS) Repair manuals Verbal/personal instructions from a supervisor or technical lead Written work orders Other resources not listed here None of these 8 In general, if a mason is laying a tile floor in a square room, which of the following statements accurately describes an appropriate approach to tile layout? Answer to this question is required Begin layout from the center of the room, working outward, so that cut tiles at opposite walls are balanced and narrow edge pieces are avoided. A thin, rubber bumper should abut the tiles along the edge. A larger tile of the same material should be placed in the exact center of the floor, to provide structural stability to the rest of the floor. The tiles must be arranged directly on the joists, and not on the subfloor. The general rule is: square room, rounded tiles; rounded room, square tiles If you use a checkerboard pattern, only use a charcoal and ivory color scheme. If the room has lots of natural light, do not use light colored tiles. None of these statements is accurate. I don’t know which of these statements, if any is/are accurate 9 Have you ever completed a "dutchman" repair to a stone wall or other stone structure? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Indicate which of the following tools have you used at least 10 times, to complete work. Answer to this question is required Abrasive spinner Angle grinder Block and tackle Chisels Compressed air chisel Lewis Mallet Margin trowel Metal straight edge Mortar mixers Pincher Pointing trowel Punch hammer Splitter Tuck pointers Walling hammer or catchy hammer Other tools not listed here None of these 11 Indicate those materials you have used as part of a repair or construction effort. For purposes of this question, "used" means that you shaped or created one or more items made of the material. Answer to this question is required Brick tile Bricks Ceramic tile Clay tile Cobblestones Concrete block Cut stone Flagstone Glass Other materials not listed here None of these 12 Indicate which materials, if any, you have used in combination with stone, to create finished structures, surfaces or objects. Answer to this question is required Bonding additives Cement Coloring Mortar Patching concrete Patching epoxy Sand Other materials not listed here None of these 13 Can you work, on a daily basis, in temperatures above 90 degrees F and below 32 degrees F? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Can you work all day in the rain, when required? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Can you walk, stoop down, and climb steps and ladders, when required, for a whole work day? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Indicate those actions you have performed as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Checked mechanical equipment for safety purposes, before using Donned personal protective equipment (PPE), issued by an employer Blocked off hazardous work areas to prevent accidents among passers-by Completed manual labor adjacent to objects or structures of exceptionally high monetary value None of these actions 17 Can you lift and carry 100-pound objects for short distances, with some assistance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Can you safely work at an elevation of 80 feet off the ground, on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.