Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts and license for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education and license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-10 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must have experience working in an infection control program as it relates to: Prevention of exposure to infectious diseases; administration of vaccinations; reduction in the transmission of infectious agents; containment of infectious outbreaks; and evaluation of infection control programs. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. 4 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have the experience required by the selective factor and this experience is clearly addressed in my resume. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. 5 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 5.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 5.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 5.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 5.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 6 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 6.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 6.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 7 Quality Improvement and Infection Control Nurses have frequent contact with correctional, professional, clinical and administrative staff within the institution. They have additional contacts outside the institution with personnel and groups from other Bureau of Prisons' facilities, community hospitals, national accrediting agencies, professional organizations, and public health agencies. These contacts require the exchange of information concerning infection control in the correctional environment and the effectiveness of health care for inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated a comprehensive in-service education program focusing on infection control issues relating to staff, inmates, volunteer and contract personnel; and/or I have led a multi-disciplinary workgroup to analyze a health system operational problem and develop a system solution; and/or I have co-chaired the Infection Control Committee and had responsibility for coordinating all committee activities. I have assigned routine daily assignments to staff or inmates; and/or I have successfully directed staff in the performance of job functions; and/or I have conveyed verbal emotional support to patients and/or families prior to the beginning of treatment or patient educational sessions. I have provided staff and patient consultation and education regarding infectious disease transmission as needed; and/or I have presented the results of a quality improvement study using the Plan, Do, Check, Act (Focus PDCA) methodology to a national or regional audience; and/or I have cultivated a personal network of other infection control and/or quality improvement professionals in the local area. I have reported communicable diseases to the appropriate state and federal public health authorities; and/or I have kept management informed of specific infection risks of a potentially serious nature such as a tuberculosis case; and/or I have presented classroom material to adult learners; and/or I have organized and chaired official meetings; and/or I have coordinated programs and activities with other managers, departments, agencies and community representatives. I have contacted other departments to discuss and resolve problems; and/or I have collaborated with all disciplines and departments to incorporate policies and procedures; and/or I have served as a member of an institution committee. I have interacted with multiple departments and private and public agencies to resolve unique problems; and/or I have conducted nurse-led clinics related to infection control and disease management topics; and/or I have provided internal training to staff on new procedure being implemented; and/or I have reported medical or correctional issues to supervisors and/or management for proper action. None of the above. 8 Quality Improvement and Infection Control Nurses are responsible for documenting infection control and quality assurance activities. They are expected to analyze, document and provide written reports on infection risks and identified inefficiencies in health services operations. They are responsible for written notification of reportable communicable diseases to the appropriate public health authorities as required by Bureau of Prisons standards and other Federal and state agencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written an Infection Control policy/procedure; and/or I have written an Infection Control manual; and/or I have written an Institution Supplement; and/or I have written an article which was published; and/or I have written material which was later utilized in an official policy and/or procedure or institution supplement. I have revised existing nursing policies and procedures; and/or I have prepared performance evaluations on subordinate nursing staff/inmate workers/janitorial staff; and/or I have thoroughly documented medical information on patient charts for use by other medical professionals in making medical needs determinations; and/or I have written a lesson plan for in-service and training on infection control or quality improvement topics. I have prepared internal nursing policies or standard operating procedures to be used by staff; and/or I have prepared written results of an investigation that will be used by higher authorities or court officials; and/or I have conducted and written a report on a quality improvement study of an identified health services problem. I have prepared work orders, supply requisitions, etc.; and/or I have prepared informational memorandums for internal use describing uncomplicated incidents or events; and/or I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have documented routine patient care on medical charts; and/or I have transcribed physician's orders. None of the above. 9 Quality Improvement and Infection Control Nurses assist in the review and interpretation of microbiology and serological patient reports for positive results indicative of nosocomial infection or colonization. They investigate identified problems with administrative operations or clinical care, analyzes evidence and synthesizes actions to improve processes, systems and health outcomes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified actual and potential infection control problems by collecting and analyzing data and subsequently resolving the issue; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted patient lab reports for positive results indicative of nosocomial infection or colonization; and/or I have developed and participated in special quality improvement efforts to effect changes in infection control practices and improve organizational performance. I have gathered data and used it to solve a problem; and/or I have investigated an issue and suggested a solution to a superior; and/or I have collaborated with other departments; and/or I have maintained records of ongoing data systems; and/or I have adapted medical issues to the correctional environment. I have utilized surveillance techniques to monitor infection rates and origins within a hospital or clinic setting; and/or I have used the most appropriate guidelines or references including appropriate infectious disease and laboratory texts, professional manuals, journals, regulations and federal standards to implement infection control measures for the institution. I have identified the need for data collection and analysis; and/or I have accumulated and presented acquired data at a related meeting; and/or I have received specific training in area of data collection and statistics; and/or I have researched literature and articles in applicable professional journals in order to become informed in infection control practices. None of the above. 10 Quality Improvement and Infection Control Nurses use agency-approved word-processing, statistical and presentation design software to collect, analyze and report on infection control and quality improvement issues and programs. They tailor the use of particular software applications to the target audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated a presentation by changing information contained in slides, graphs, and charts; and/or I have assisted in creating a presentation using a specific data presentation program; and/or I have used a database to track and project completion dates; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from mainframe or personal computer. I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (Word/Excel); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using a variety of word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program. I have used computer programs such as spreadsheets or databases; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using a variety of word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program. None of the above. 11 Quality Improvement and Infection Control Nurses coordinate and provide consultation for prevention, surveillance and control procedures that relate to the ambulatory care environment including vaccination programs, infection risk reduction initiatives and management of infection outbreaks. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained other clinical staff on infection control techniques; and/or I have worked independently to ensure reliability and compliance with established operational procedures, Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards, Center for Disease Control guidelines and Joint Commission accreditation standards; and/or I have used Bureau of Prisons, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Joint Commission and institution regulations as related to infection control practices. I have carried out any aspect of infection control duties as instructed by the institution clinical director; and I have assessed patients and used nursing care principles to independently apply and monitor infection control activities at all levels of patient care; and/or I have attended conference or workshop on any aspect of infection control; and/or I have subscribed to an infection control journal. I have researched new methodologies, theories, principles and instrumentation in the areas of microbiology, employee health and infection control practices; and/or I have implemented new methods and procedures or substantially modified existing practices to resolve clinical infection control problems.; and/or I have directed a variety of technical, diagnostic and analytical infection control procedures. I have used a variety of specialized infection surveillance techniques and studies, modified and adapted established nursing care procedures and made use of clinical and medical protocols to devise solutions to problems; and/or I have revised standard infection control methods to improve the quality of patient care; and/or I have reviewed Bureau of Prisons, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Joint Commision regulations as related to infection control practices. I have served as a member of a local infection control networking group in order to keep abreast of current research and ideologies on infectious diseases from established organizations such as Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, Georgia and National Institute of Health in Washington, D.C.; and/or I have received Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology [APIC] certification. I have independently planned, designed, monitored and evaluated the Infection Control Program; and/or I have attended an Association for Professional in Infection Control and Epidemiology basic training course; and/or I have consulted with state and local health department, Center for Disease Control and Occupational Safety and Health Administration to assure compliance with regulatory agencies including Joint Commission; and/or I haveprovided infection control services such as flu shot clinics and collection of sputum cultures to screen for TB disease; and/or I have assessed application of infection control practices by nursing staff. None of the above. 12 Quality Improvement and Infection Control Nurses are responsible for the technical and administrative management of the performance improvement program. They manage the quality of operational processes in the ambulatory clinic, the reduction of risk to the health and safety of inmates, competency of health care personnel, appropriateness of care, efficiency of the health care delivery system, and the effectiveness of the infection control program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained general knowledge of Joint Commission standards as related to medical care of inmates and documentation of care; and/or I have attended training on applying quality assurance methodology such as Plan Do Check Act (PDCA) or similar analytical methods; and/or I have attended institution training offered on JC accreditation. I have performed administrative functions of a performance improvement program such as data collection, analysis and reporting, maintaining meeting minutes and coordinating workgroup activities; and/or I have provided training to health services and other staff on conducting performance studies using the PDCA or similar quality assurance methodology. I have assisted in data collection for Improving Organizational Performance projects; and/or I have attended Improving Organizational Performance meetings or participated in workgroups or Joint Commssion training; and/or I have conducted chart reviews to determine compliance with Joint Commssion standards, American Correctional Association and Program Review for documentation of medical care; and/or I have identified potential variances from evidence-based health care or policy which lead to improved systems and processes. I have developed the performance improvement plan for the institution; and/or I have provided training to staff on principles of improving health care performance; and/or I have developed presentation for demonstration of compliance with standards for surveyors, program reviewers, or governing body members. None of the above. 13 Quality Improvement and Infection Control Nurses must have the ability to assess patients' needs and coordinate an appropriate nursing care plan, managed care plan, or case management objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed patient care plans and ensured corrective actions are initiated; and/or I have completed quality review of policies and procedures for care and treatment; and/or I have conveyed treatment team goals to obtain optimal patient compliance; and/or I have recognized patient deviations from normal and provided appropriate treatment and follow-up. I have developed, planned, and implemented nursing care plans in a hospital specialty unit with acute and sub-acute beds for patients with multi-system organ failures such as end stage liver disease respiratory failure, congestive heart disease, and metastatic cancer with treatment failure. I have incorporated concepts of preventive health into assessment of patient needs and patient education; and/or I have revised plan of care based upon assessment of patient needs; and/or I have experience as a case manager in a hospital or health maintenance organization. I have developed and implemented nursing care plans for end of life and terminally ill patients requiring intense pain management; and/or I have developed individualize patient care plans based upon assessments, policies, guidelines, and standards of practice. I have conducted nursing assessments on newly admitted patients; and/or I have planned and implemented patient care plans for a disease which is resistant or rapidly progressing (i.e., a cancer treatment which is not responding to therapy); and/or I have reported changes with patient status based upon observations and assessments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).