Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Recruitment Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals ranging from the public to high level officials, both internal and external, to the agency/organization. He/she must provide recruiting advice, training and assistance to meet the agency's recruitment and succession planning strategies. He/she answers calls, web-based inquires, virtual chat group messaging, relating to employment with the BOP. He/she will assist interested candidates with questions related to application process, qualifications, current vacancies, benefits, pay &amp; leave schedules. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews; and/or I have briefed management on personnel selections; and/or I have provided training to others on personnel hiring requirements and procedures; and/or I have answered non-technical questions on promotion procedures. I have participated in staff meetings to discuss new office procedures; and/or I have participated in a budget meeting to discuss staffing projections; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding a special project; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have assisted in providing official training to employees during recurring training classes. I have advised/instructed clerical and administrative staff regarding interpretation of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have, during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have provided staffing information during a department head meeting; and/or I have provided current employees information about potential career paths available from entry level jobs occupied. None of the above. 5 The Recruitment Specialist will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of agency executives, managers, line staff, and the public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed qualifications review form; and/or I have completed a SF-52, Request for Personnel Action; and/or I have updated a training agenda to relay course information to instructors and participants. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared minutes from a departmental meeting; and/or I have prepared memorandum or other correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared training opportunity/vacancy announcements; and/or I have assisted a supervisor in writing position descriptions. I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates or peers and provided feedback; and/or I have provided written updates to supplements and/or contingency plans; and/or I have drafted a memorandum of understanding to resolve a labor management related issue; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed/corrected correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared justifications for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above the minimum rate request, or age waiver for approval. None of the above. 6 The Recruitment Specialist must be proficient in utilizing a variety of information management software programs. He/she must be able to determine the most appropriate method for obtaining recruitment and applicant data in order to conduct follow-up and track the lifecycle of the application process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved data and/or information using applicable software application; and/or I have tracked specific operational costs using a column pad and manual calculations; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various software processing programs; and/or I have reviewed correspondence to ensure specific accounting codes were entered correctly for overtime and special projects. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have provided input/data to the management assessment process; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly. I have uploaded payroll information to National Finance Center; and/or I have trained a timekeeper on keying Time and Attendance information on employees; and/or I have utilized computer software to develop and implement a database to streamline or expedite a manual tracking process. None of the above. 7 The Recruitment Specialist will initiate special projects to assess employee turnover patterns, past recruitment practices, technological changes and local labor market conditions, and provide advice to managers and local human resource offices on future staffing strategies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly; and/or I have used spreadsheets and/or databases in order to complete routine assignments; and/or I have tracked project costs/expenditures using established formulas in Microsoft Excel. I have updated an established spreadsheet to add current data; and/or I have reviewed trends identified in reports and provided input for recommendations; and/or I have generated routine payroll reports and provided them to supervisor; and/or I have updated recruitment/staffing data in the staffing report. I have retrieved data from various information sources for other staff and/or department heads; and/or I have gathered data to be included in a report or in operational/program review files; and/or I have served as a team member on a project that implemented a new procedure locally which included planning, assessing resource needs, implementation and coordination; and/or I have written procedures and/or an institution supplement to implement the new requirement. None of the above. 8 The Recruitment Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of personnel policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as personnel trends, research, and literature.&nbsp; This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations as they pertain to hiring. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have requested and processed certificate of eligible candidates; and/or I have prepared and processed merit promotion certificates; and/or I have explained applicant qualifications for a position; and/or I have determined proper pay setting for new employees. I have reviewed applicant forms with potential candidates; and/or I have assisted applicants in completing a USAJOBS application; and/or I have maintained applicant supply files such as Veteran Recruitment Act, Public Health Service, Direct Hire or Schedule A; and/or I have explained job requirements to interested applicants. I have participated in Affirmative Employment committee meetings and activities as a resource from Human Resources or program manager; and/or I have explained competitive and excepted procedures for hiring applicants; and/or I have explained requirements/eligibility for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above the minimum rate request or age waiver. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Recruitment Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals ranging from the public to high level officials, both internal and external, to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she must provide recruiting advice, training and assistance to meet the agency&rsquo;s recruitment and succession planning strategies.&nbsp; He/she answers calls, web-based inquires, virtual chat group messaging, relating to employment with the BOP.&nbsp; He/she will assist interested candidates with questions related to application process, qualifications, current vacancies, benefits, pay &amp; leave schedules. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised/instructed clerical and administrative staff regarding interpretation of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have, during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have provided staffing information during a department head meeting; and/or I have provided current employees information about potential career paths available from entry level jobs occupied. I have presented staffing trends and information to various members of the agency, to include employees from the institution, region or Central Office; and/or I have provided recruitment training to agency recruiters; and/or I have testified or provided a deposition at an merit systems protection board, equal employment opportunity, arbitration hearing; and/or I have provided an agency overview at a recruitment/job fair; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures. I have participated in staff meetings to discuss new office procedures; and/or I have participated in a budget meeting to discuss staffing projections; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding a special project; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have assisted in providing official training to employees during recurring training classes. None of the above. 5 The Recruitment Specialist will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of agency executives, managers, line staff, and the public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have prepared instructional information or memoranda for subordinates and peers; and/or I have edited/corrected/suggested revisions for incoming technical documents from within the department for CEO or higher level review and signature; and/or I have developed an institution supplement or standard operating procedures for a new program; and/or I have written congressional responses; and/or I have submitted nomination/justification for national awards recognition approval; and/or I have drafted proposal and decision letters for adverse or disciplinary actions; and/or I have authored a response to a Merit Systems Protection Board acknowledgment order. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared minutes from a departmental meeting; and/or I have prepared memorandum or other correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared training opportunity/vacancy announcements; and/or I have assisted a supervisor in writing position descriptions. I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates or peers and provided feedback; and/or I have provided written updates to supplements and/or contingency plans; and/or I have drafted a memorandum of understanding to resolve an labor management related issue; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed/corrected correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared justifications for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above the minimum rate request, or age waiver for approval. None of the above. 6 The Recruitment Specialist must be proficient in utilizing a variety of information management software programs. He/she must be able to determine the most appropriate method for obtaining recruitment and applicant data in order to conduct follow-up and track the lifecycle of the application process. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved data and/or information using applicable software application; and/or I have tracked specific operational costs using a column pad and manual calculations; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various software processing programs; and/or I have reviewed correspondence to ensure specific accounting codes were entered correctly for overtime and special projects. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have provided input/data to the management assessment process; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly. I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system or spreadsheet; and/or I have prepared a presentation which included slides, graphs, charts using multiple presentations software packages; and/or I have entered statistical data into an agency specific database to accurately track information used by management; and/or I have used available automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments. None of the above. 7 The Recruitment Specialist will initiate special projects to assess employee turnover patterns, past recruitment practices, technological changes and local labor market conditions, and provide advice to managers and local human resource offices on future staffing strategies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly; and/or I have used spreadsheets and/or databases in order to complete routine assignments; and/or I have tracked project costs/expenditures using established formulas in Microsoft Excel. I have prepared technical and/or non-technical reports and presented findings; and/or I have participated in a program review/audit and recommended changes or improvements; and/or I have gathered non-routine information and analyzed results related to staffing trends; and/or I have planned and developed new methods or procedures that were implemented which involved planning, assessing resource needs, implementation, and coordination. I have retrieved data from various information sources for other staff and/or department heads; and/or I have gathered data to be included in a report or in operational/program review files; and/or I have served as a team member on a project that implemented a new procedure locally which included planning, assessing resource needs, implementation, and coordination; and/or I have written procedures and/or an institution supplement to implement the new requirement). None of the above. 8 The Recruitment Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of personnel policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as personnel trends, research, and literature.&nbsp; This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations as they pertain to hiring. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have instructed Human Resource related topics at local annual training; and/or I have advised management on recruitment strategies for positions identified as hard-to-fill; and/or I have prepared a special salary rate request for submission to Office of Personnel Management. I have participated in Affirmative Employment committee meetings and activities as a resource from Human Resources or program manager; and/or I have explained competitive and excepted procedures for hiring applicants; and/or I have explained requirements/eligibility for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above the minimum rate request, or age waiver, I have requested and processed certificate of eligible candidates; and/or I have prepared and processed merit promotion certificates; and/or I have explained applicant qualifications for a position; and/or I have determined proper pay setting for new employees. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).