Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 02 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Building Services Worker without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have the ability to lift 50 pounds? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following cleaning tasks do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have cleaned office areas, restrooms, corridors, storage areas, stairways, or other areas. I have emptied trash. I have swept or mopped floors. I have cleaned and disinfected washable surfaces. I have vacuumed carpets. I have stripped old wax, re-waxed and buffed floor areas. I have cleaned glass and plexiglass surfaces. I have dusted, waxed and polished horizontal surfaces. I have not done any of the above but am willing to learn. 4 Which of the following cleaning tasks do you have experience performing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Maintaining stock of cleaning supplies Adjusting and maintaining cleaning equipment Maintaining a constant supply and paper products and soap Washing/replacing window blinds Washing/replacing ceiling fixtures and room partitions Assisting with moving, arranging and lifting heavy objects Assisting loading and unloading debris and trash, equipment, supplies and other materials Removing debris, snow and ice from sidewalks, steps, driveways and parking areas None of the above 5 Which of the following responses best describes your experience keeping objects neat, clean, and in order? Answer to this question is required I am able to keep objects neat, clean, and in order under close supervision and guidance. I am able to keep objects neat, clean, and in order on my own initiative. I am very meticulous in keeping objects neat, clean and in order. I instruct or direct others in orderly work practices. None of the above 6 Which of the following responses best describes your experience reading and interpreting instructions? Answer to this question is required I read and interpret instructions, specifications, and directions. I carry out instructions which involve decisions based on pre-established guidelines. I carry out instructions to perform simple tasks that require several steps. I ask clarifying questions when instructions or directions are unclear. I can follow written directions given by a supervisor or senior management on work procedures or processes. I can complete and understand routine paperwork in order to carry through work assignments such as completing or verifying standard or inventory forms legibly. None of the above. 7 Please choose the answers that best reflect your experience in performing the following duties: Answer to this question is required I store materials and supplies as directed. I move and arrange furniture, supplies, equipment. I mow lawns, trim yards, or shovel snow. I clean office areas, restrooms, corridors, storage areas, stairways, or any area. I empty trash. I sweep and/or mop floors. I clean and disinfect washable surfaces. I maintain supply or paper products and soap in restrooms. I maintain stock of cleaning materials and equipment in order to complete assignments. I vacuum carpets. I strip old wax, re-wax and buff floor areas. I change light bulbs. I clean equipment and tools. None of the above. 8 Do you follow safety procedures when using tools and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.