Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you&nbsp;possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statements describe your experience using automated equipment (e.g., optical scanner, computer) to perform warehouse inventory tasks? Answer to this question is required I have accessed inventory information using automated equipment. I have loaded inventory data into database systems using scanners and/or keyboards. I have identified and corrected errors in inventory database systems. None of the above 4 Do you have experience adjusting work schedules to accommodate last-minute priority requests for service? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising and/or leading workers who store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising and/or leading this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical material handler work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised and/or lead this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 6 Do you have experience independently performing the tasks of a material handler, including the storage, delivery, and set up of furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Select the warehousing activities you have performed. Answer to this question is required Laid out storage space Established item locations Determined organization and arrangement of stock Identified high and low usage items according to organizational policies/procedures Developed space utilization plans None of the above 8 Select the actions you have performed when receiving shipments. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Visually inspected items for damage Counted items to verify quantity Checked shipping label for accurate delivery location Recorded transactions (e.g., receipt date, time) Placed tags, and/or identification marks on items None of the above 9 Which tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issues and receiving. Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment. Upload equipment. Assemble items delivered in pieces. Labor tasks. None of the above. 10 Select the items you have experience moving and setting up in rooms. Answer to this question is required Collapsible tables (e.g., round, rectangle) Rigid tables (e.g., conference tables) Podiums Desks Chairs (e.g., stacking, folding) Filing cabinets Pianos Floor risers Televisions and/ or Monitors None of the above 11 Which tasks have you performed in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issuing and receiving Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment Unload equipment Assemble items delivered in pieces None of the above 12 Have you been responsible for inspecting equipment for damage? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Which tools or equipment have you used to move large or heavy items? Answer to this question is required Sliders Electrical forklift Industrial forklift (load capacity over 10,000 pounds) Pallet jack (battery/electric) Hand jack Manual dollies None of the above 14 Have you identified safety issues and concerns? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.