Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Human Resources Officer must have knowledge of staffing and placement, compensation and leave, labor management practices and regulations, EEO procedures and regulations, employee relations. They must have the ability to resolve problems in these areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have audited a department’s performance appraisals records and provided training based on findings; and/or I have provided direction on the use of pay flexibilities and incentives; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan to address concerns with an employee’s performance; and/or I have advised a management official on appropriate handling of an official time request. I have determined qualifications for positions covered under the standards for the scientific and professional and/or administrative and management occupations; and/or I have determined applicability of highest previous rate in determining pay entitlement; and/or I have advised employees of appeal rights and formal grievance procedures. I have adjudicated veteran’s preference; and/or I have determined qualifications for positions covered under the standards for the clerical and technical occupations; and/or I have audited time and attendance files; and/or I have compiled materials for a desk audit. None of the above. 5 The Human Resources Officer writes local policy, congressional responses, grievance responses, disciplinary and adverse action letters, and correspondence for CEO signature.&nbsp; They must be able to effectively communicate with staff at all levels of the organization, individuals from other federal agencies, professional organizations and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written non-select/congratulatory letters; and/or I have written an informal response (e.g., email); and/or I have written meetings minutes; and/or I have written an incentive award nomination. I have created a job fair fact sheet outlining employee benefits; and/or I have created vacancy announcements or training opportunity announcements; and/or I have written an article for an agency publication/newsletter; and/or I have authored a memorandum outlining a change internal HR procedures; and/or I have written a lesson plan. I have written disciplinary action letters; and/or I have written a program review or operational review report; and/or I have written an institutional supplement; and/or I have written an objection statement to the employment of an outside applicant; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan; and/or I have written a justification to modify duties in an existing position description; and/or I have written a justification for a pay incentive None of the above. 6 The Human Resources Officer expresses ideas and facts on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals ranging from the executive staff to the public.&nbsp; They respond to technical questions and make recommendations, make oral presentations, testify on the agency&rsquo;s behalf, conduct negotiations, and coordinate/or participate in recruitment trips.&nbsp; They must also possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to persuade individuals on a variety of human resources issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained position qualifications; and/or I have participated in labor relations meetings; and/or I have presented a personnel seminar for all staff during annual training; and/or I have discussed/explained career progression opportunity to others; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance or training opportunities; and/or I have counseled an employee on personnel programs such as upward mobility, retirement, and other benefits. I have advised managers/supervisors on implementation of new personnel policies; and/or I have discussed updated human resource policy at a department head meeting; and/or I have discussed the employee disciplinary process with proposing officials. I have explained a leave and earning statement entry to an employee; and/or I have explained award nomination procedures; and/or I have explained application procedures listed on a vacancy announcement. None of the above. 7 The Human Resources Officer is responsible for evaluating and interpreting laws, policies, and procedures relative to Human Resource program areas.&nbsp; The work involves evaluating program areas and policies with precision and confidence.&nbsp; They are required to discuss conclusions with the Executive staff and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned, supervised, and coordinated work activities of subordinates and staff relating to employment, compensation, labor relations, and employee relations; and/or I have evaluated proposed national policy and provided comments; and/or I have reviewed and made recommendations to institution supplements. I have administered the leave program in a fair and consistent manner in accordance with laws and other applicable rules/regulations; and/or I have authored an audit report outlining detailed findings planned and conducted new employee orientation to foster positive attitude toward organizational objectives. I have administered the voluntary leave transfer program; and/or I have assessed policy compliance for HR programs such as incentive awards, contract security or annual time keepers training standards; and/or I have evaluated position management reports and organizational charts to ensure accurate balance of positions. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Human Resources Officer must have knowledge of staffing and placement, compensation and leave, labor management practices and regulations, EEO procedures and regulations, employee relations and training. They must have the ability to resolve problems in these areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed and made a determination on leave restoration requests; and/or I have developed a staffing plan for an activating facility; and/or I have developed a long term recruitment strategy for hard to fill positions; and/or I have assessed applicant’s suitability based on all pre-employment screening factors; and/or I have utilized the detail for training program for GS and WS to address projected staffing concerns; and/or I have provided training on a collective bargaining agreement to mid-level management officials I have audited a department’s performance appraisals records and provided training based on findings; and/or I have provided direction on the use of pay flexibilities and incentives; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan to address concerns with an employee’s performance; and/or I have advised a management official on appropriate handling of an official time request. I have determined qualifications for positions covered under the standards for the scientific and professional and/or administrative and management occupations; and/or I have determined applicability of highest previous rate in determining pay entitlement; and/or I have advised employees of appeal rights and formal grievance procedures None of the above. 5 The Human Resources Officer writes local policy, congressional responses, grievance responses, disciplinary and adverse action letters, lesson plans, and correspondence for CEO signature. They must be able to effectively communicate with staff at all levels of the organization, individuals from other federal agencies, professional organizations and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have created a job fair fact sheet outlining employee benefits; and/or I have created vacancy announcements or training opportunity announcements; and/or I have written an article for an agency publication/newsletter; and/or I have authored a memorandum outlining a change internal HR procedures; and/or I have written a lesson plan. I have written disciplinary action letter; and/or I have written a program review or operational review report; and/or I have written an institutional supplement; and/or I have written an objection statement to the employment of an outside applicant; and/or I have created a performance improvement plan; and/or I have written a justification to modify duties in an existing position description; and/or I have written a justification for a pay incentive. I have written a response to arbitration hearing request; and/or I have written MOUs/settlement agreements; and/or I have written an adverse action letter; and/or I have written a program review response; and/or I have written a pre-employment waiver for applicants outside the guidelines of acceptability; and/or I have writting a re-programming justification. None of the above. 6 The Human Resources Officer is responsible for evaluating and interpreting laws, policies, and procedures relative to Human Resource program areas. The work involves evaluating program areas and policies with precision and confidence. They are required to discuss conclusions with the Executive staff and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as Cost Center Manager for multiple areas in human resource such as HR operations and incentive awards; and/or I have evaluated recruitment or selection criteria at a hard to fill location; and/or I have planned, organized, directed, or coordinated the personnel, or labor relations activities of an organization; and/or I have managed/created retention registers during a department’s manpower reorganization. I have administered the voluntary leave transfer program; and/or I have assessed policy compliance for HR programs such as incentive awards, contract security or annual time keepers training standards; and/or I have evaluated position management reports and organizational charts to ensure accurate balance of positions. I have planned, supervised, and coordinated work activities of subordinates and staff relating to employment, compensation, labor relations, and employee relations; and/or I have evaluated proposed national policy and provided comments; and/or I have reviewed and made recommendations to institution supplements. None of the above. 7 The Human Resources Officer expresses ideas and facts on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals ranging from the executive staff to the public. They respond to technical questions and make recommendations, make oral presentations, testify on the agency's behalf, conduct negotiations, and coordinate/or participate in recruitment trips. They must also possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to persuade individuals on a variety of human resources issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised managers/supervisors on implementation of new personnel policies; and/or I have discussed updated human resource policy at a department head meeting; and/or I have discussed the employee disciplinary process with proposing officials. I have advised Warden/CEO, executive level top management staff in regards to complex personnel issues such as staffing for hard-to-fill positions, or institution position management; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures; and/or I have developed a career information program for public presentation I have explained position qualifications; and/or I have participated in labor relations meetings; and/or I have presented a personnel seminar for all staff during annual training; and/or I have discussed/explained career progression opportunity to others; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance or training opportunities; and/or I have counseled an employee on personnel programs such as upward mobility, retirement, and other benefits. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).