Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to operate automated Cash Register Systems or Point of Sale Systems and related equipment to process merchandise purchases.** Demonstrated experience in processing various transactions in a retail setting, including the following: 1) &nbsp; cash payments, 2)&nbsp; check payments, 3) money order payments, 4) coupon/discount application, 5) credit card purchases, and 6) tallying deposits for cash registers. Answer to this question is required Processed various transactions in a retail setting, including ALL of the tasks listed above. Processed various transactions in a retail setting, including FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the tasks listed above. Processed various transactions in a retail setting, including TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the tasks listed above. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to provide customer service.** Effectively, professionally, and courteously serviced a wide variety of individuals, gathering and disseminating information, and answering customer and/or vendor inquiries or requests. Answer to this question is required Provided customer service to a wide variety of customers, offering assistance and responding effectively, professionally, and courteously to address ALL of the following inquiries or requests regarding: 1) availability of merchandise, 2) merchandise features, prices, and uses, 3) the retail establishment or institution 4) discussions and/or negotiation of prices, 5) complaints, and 6) requests for returns, exchanges, and markdowns. Provided customer service to a wide variety of customers, offering assistance and responding effectively, professionally, and courteously to address FOUR (4) OR FIVE (5) of the following inquiries or requests regarding: 1) availability of merchandise, 2) merchandise features, prices, and uses, 3) the retail establishment or institution 4) discussions and/or negotiation of prices, 5) complaints, and 6) requests for returns, exchanges, and markdowns. Provided customer service to a wide variety of customers, offering assistance and responding effectively, professionally, and courteously to address THREE (3) of the following inquiries or requests regarding: 1) availability of merchandise, 2) merchandise features, prices, and uses, 3) the retail establishment or institution 4) discussions and/or negotiation of prices, 5) complaints, and 6) requests for returns, exchanges, and markdowns. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to interpret and apply a variety of guidelines and/or regulations. Worked with detailed information, written procedures and instructions to organize and handle work assignments. For example: regularly used judgment to identify and select the most appropriate procedures to use by choosing from among several established alternatives and using judgement to handle work assignments when guidelines did not fully cover the situation. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, organized and processed submitted material and/or products, and handled work assignments based on a variety of written directions. Performed detailed work similar to the example above with a high degree of speed and accuracy. Under supervision, organized and processed submitted material and/or products and handled work assignments based on a variety of written directions. Performed detailed work similar to the example above with accuracy. Under supervision, organized and processed submitted material and/or products and handled work assignments based on a variety of written directions. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to perform inventory tasks and maintain accurate records.** Properly displayed products as well as marked, received, and stocked merchandise. Determined quantities required for inventory and replenishment. Answer to this question is required Inventoried, marked, received, stocked, and re-stocked merchandise for a retail organization. Corrected discrepancies in inventory records and reconciled packing lists against invoices. Re-ordered supplies and merchandise. Inventoried, marked, received, stocked, and re-stocked merchandise. Determined routine stock replenishment needs, correcting basic discrepancies in inventory records such as recording errors. Marked, stocked and re-stocked merchandise. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate and interact collaboratively with others. Developed and maintained positive, productive working relationships with a variety of individuals (e.g., co-workers, supervisors/managers, vendors, customers). Answer to this question is required Effectively communicated and interacted collaboratively with supervisors/managers, co-workers, vendors, and customers to gather and provide accurate information and resolve problems in a retail environment. This included using knowledge of retail practices to sell merchandise and ensuring interactions complemented the overall experience of visitors, staff, and/or the general public. Effectively communicated and interacted collaboratively with supervisors/managers, co-workers, vendors, and customers to gather and provide accurate information and to resolve problems in a professional office environment. This included using knowledge of the business or organization to complement the overall experience of visitors, staff and/or the general public. Effectively communicated and interacted collaboratively with supervisors/managers, co-workers, and customers to gather and provide accurate information and resolve problems. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).