Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 To qualify at the GS-14 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-13 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience leading or supervising others; independently planning, developing, and conducting complex and sensitive investigations with tact and discretion, particularly investigations of computer crimes; securing facts and developing evidence; providing expert forensic support through the scientific analysis of evidence; maintaining liaison with other law enforcement bodies; con-ducting investigative interviews and electronic evidence searches; obtaining sworn statements; and pre-paring written reports of investigations and summaries. I do not have the specialized experience as described above. 2 An applicant may not have reached his/her 37th birthday at the time of initial appointment to a Federal Law Enforcement covered position within the US Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General; select the answer choice that describes your age: Answer to this question is required I have not yet reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to 30 days from the closing date of this announcement. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have previous service credible under Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) law enforcement provisions sufficient to enable me to retire at age 57 with 20 years of creditable service. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position; however, I am eligible to apply based on veteran’s or other applicable hiring authorities. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position. I am not eligible to apply for this position. 3 Select the investigative tasks(s) you have performed in support of criminal and/or civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Participated on an investigative team Coordinated an investigation with other law enforcement agencies Served as a lead investigator on complex investigations Determined the scope and direction of an investigation Executed search and arrest warrants Collected and preserved physical evidence Examined records Presented factual findings to prosecutors or other decision making officials 4 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of skill in coordinating investigations with law enforcement personnel from other organizations. Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routine-ly, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 5 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of experience in coordinating multi-agent cases or investigations involving multiple subjects. Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 6 Do you have experience working for a federal Office of Inspector General as defined in the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have a good working knowledge of the responsibilities, authorities, and standards for Offices of Inspectors General as specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience working with Data Mining concepts and methodologies regarding identifying potential criminal activity or fraud? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Do you have experience in conducting investigations into network intrusions of systems where computers or other electronic means are used as a weapon in a crime and are familiar with techniques, methods and procedures in order to conduct computer forensic examinations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you have expert knowledge of computer forensic principles, techniques, methods and procedures in order to conduct forensic examinations of seized electronic storage devices? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Select the supervisory tasks you have performed. Answer to this question is required Assigned work to employees Monitored progress of investigations Provided technical assistance to employees Set priorities for employees or team members None of the above 12 Select the supervisory task(s) you have completed in the management of an investigative group or team. Answer to this question is required Conducted performance evaluations Recruited new employees Engaged in progressive discipline of employees Coordinated training and development activities for staff Developed budget plan for operational expenditures None of the above 13 Select the one answer choice that best describes your ability to lead a diverse workforce. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a first-line supervisor, with responsibility for providing guidance and direction to subordinates. I have experience as a team leader, with responsibility for providing technical guidance and direction to subordinates. I have limited experience in providing technical guidance and direction to subordinates. I have no experience leading a diverse workforce. 14 Select the answer(s) that best describes your experience in managing resources and providing direction and supervision to a subordinate investigative staff in order to meet organizational demands. Answer to this question is required Reviewing reports of investigations and other correspondence, and providing technical investigative direction to subordinate criminal investigators concerning innovative techniques applicable to solving cases involving multi-subject/multi-allegation white collar investigations. Conducting analytical studies and drawing conclusions from the data to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of OIG operations. Supervising subordinate criminal investigators including giving advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on performance, conduct, and administrative matters. Reviewing investigative reports for completeness and assurance that all logical leads were completed prior to case closure. None of the above. 15 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of skill in gathering and analyzing data in support of criminal investigative activities. Answer to this question is required I have experience independently conducting analyses and performing research techniques to identify and structure patterns of illegal activity to make recommendations that advance investigations. I have experience independently performing analyses using varied sources to support investigative activities. I have experience performing analyses using various sources to assist in the support of investigations. I have experience collecting data and performing analyses using various sources to complete work assignments. I do not possess the experience described above. 16 Have you conducted digital forensics examinations in support of criminal investigations that have gone through an independent quality control process without major technical issues identified, or have you successfully had your digital forensics report or testimony based on your forensic report admitted in federal court? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you conducted a forensic acquisition and analysis of a Redundant Array of Inexpensive/Independent Disks (RAID)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you ever developed and conducted a formal validation test of forensic software or hardware and documented the results in a formal written report? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Select the one answer choice that best describes your experience using digital forensics and network monitoring tools and techniques to track information flows, e.g., to track the information collected by an application or transmitted from a computer, mobile device, or other device via the Internet? Answer to this question is required I have two or more years of experience and have trained others in using digital forensics and network monitoring tools and techniques to track information flows, e.g., to track the information collected by an application or transmitted from a computer, mobile device, or other device via the Internet. I have two or more years of experience in using digital forensics and network monitoring tools and techniques to track information flows, e.g., to track the information collected by an application or transmitted from a computer, mobile device, or other device via the Internet. I have one year of experience in using digital forensics and network monitoring tools and techniques to track information flows, e.g., to track the information collected by an application or transmitted from a computer, mobile device, or other device via the Internet. I have had training in using digital forensics and network monitoring tools and techniques to track information flows, e.g., to track the information collected by an application or transmitted from a computer, mobile device, or other device via the internet. I have no experience in using digital forensics and network monitoring tools and techniques to track information flows, e.g., to track the information collected by an application or transmitted from a computer, mobile device, or other device via the internet. 20 Select all choices that best describe your highest level of knowledge of the principles and techniques of criminal investigating and the rules of evidence. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a team member conducting criminal investigations using established investigative techniques. I have knowledge of the criminal statutes most commonly associated with these types of cases. I have taken training courses to acquire knowledge of the rules of evidence. I have extensive experience conducting multi-subject/multi-allegation white collar criminal investigations using established investigative techniques. I have extensive knowledge of the criminal statues associated with these types of cases and a sound understanding of the rules of evidence. I have extensive experience conducting single-subject/multi-allegation and/or multi-subject/single allegation white collar criminal investigations using established investigative techniques. I also have extensive knowledge of the criminal statutes most commonly associated with the types of cases generally investigated by Federal law enforcement agencies and a thorough understanding of the rules of evidence. I have demonstrated experience conducting general criminal investigations using established investigative techniques including knowledge of the criminal statutes most commonly associated with these types of cases and a knowledge of the rules of evidence. I have demonstrated experience investigating violations of false statements or false claims statutes. I do not possess the experience as described above. 21 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of knowledge of legal, government, and jurisprudence (i.e. knowledge of applicable Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders governing the conduct of criminal investigations). Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have working knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have limited knowledge and experience interpreting and applying Federal rules of criminal and civil procedures; agency and government laws, regulations, and policies; and executive orders. I have received training in the federal rules of criminal procedures, but have not conducted investigations. I do not possess the experience/training described above. 22 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of skill in oral communication (i.e., expressing information (e.g., ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (e.g., technical, sensitive controversial); making clear and convincing oral presentations; listening to others, attending to nonverbal cues, and responding appropriately) in conducting investigations: Answer to this question is required I have experience interviewing individuals to extract information or verify facts of an investigative nature needed to accomplish work assignments. I have experience interviewing and/or consulting with individuals to extract information needed to accomplish work assignments. I have experience making oral presentations, conducting workshops, giving speeches, and/or briefings, but do not have experience interviewing individuals. I have experience presenting information to groups, but do not have experience interviewing individuals. I do not possess this experience. 23 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of experience in communicating effectively, both orally and in writing.&nbsp;(Describe your experience in interviewing, interrogation, briefing, documenting investigative findings, and preparing investigative summaries and reports.) Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 24 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of experience in applying rules of evidence, chain of custody and evidence control procedures, rules of criminal procedures, and precedent setting court decisions required for gathering electronic evidence and conducting research and analysis. Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 25 Select the one answer choice that best describes your experience making presentations to achieve consensus among stakeholders and senior managers on complex digital forensics or cyber investigations topics? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without re-view by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task under close supervision but have not yet done it on my own. I have had education or training in making presentations to achieve consensus among stakeholders and senior managers on complex digital forensics or cyber investigations topics but I have not yet done this task. I have no experience making presentations to achieve consensus among stakeholders and senior managers on complex digital forensics or cyber investigations topics. 26 Select the one answer choice that best describes your highest level of skill in performing a full range of investigative functions, from planning and fact-finding, to reporting results. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 27 Please indicate which basic criminal investigator training program you have completed successfully. Answer to this question is required I have completed basic criminal investigator training through either the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, FBI Academy, DEA Academy, AFOSI Academy, NIS/NCIS Academy, Postal Inspection Service, or the Army Criminal Investigations course. I have completed basic criminal investigator training program through another federal agency, the state, city, or private sector organization. I have not completed a basic criminal investigator training program. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 28 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 29 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 30 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 31 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 32 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).