Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have three years of general experience, one of which was equivalent to the GS-04 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Human Resource Specialist deals with people of various backgrounds, institutional, regional and central office staff. He/she must demonstrate effective oral communication skills, expressing technical information clearly and concisely. Contacts require the ability to meet and deal in an impartial manner. He/she must be skilled in interpersonal communication to conduct interviews, orientations, and seminars. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions regarding application procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding vacancy/training announcements; and/or I have vouchered applicants for employment; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews. I have completed a public speaking course; and/or I have responded to questions received about training records or training opportunities; and/or I have screened and forwarded telephone calls from different sources; and/or I have greeted visitors to the department and provided general information; and/or I have provided an update on the status of a project during a staff meeting. I have contacted agency headquarters for guidance on Human Resource policies and procedures; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews; and/or I have briefed management on personnel selections; and/or I have responded to administrative/technical questions from management; and/or I have answered questions on promotion procedures; and/or I have updated supervisors on the status of promotion actions. None of the above. 3 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to interpret and apply a wide variety of federal regulations from the Office of Personnel Management, agency specific policies, and other instructional/regulatory materials to effectively advise others. He/she must keep abreast of human resources related information to present to the workforce. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed procedures when responding to employee questions; and/or I have screened and routed internal mail according to standard operating procedures; and/or I have completed standard forms following policy/examples. I have provided information to management on special hiring programs; and/or I have ensured that all pre employment forms were filed and properly completed prior to enter on duty date; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding guidance from the Office of Personnel Management and/or agency personnel. I have provided employee with desk audit information; and/or I have determined employee’s eligibility for a competitive promotion; and/or I have assisted in preparing a detail-for-training opportunity announcements; and/or I have keyed various personnel actions. None of the above. 4 The Human Resource Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of personnel policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as personnel trends, research, and literature. This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations in such areas as position classification, staffing, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), performance evaluations and incentive awards, labor management relations, and disciplinary/adverse actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed award recommendation for accuracy; and/or I have responded to a routine question regarding application procedures; and/or I have coded and processed a personnel action; and/or I have responded to an inquiry about service computation dates for leave and retirement purposes. I have researched a website and/or existing policy; and/or I have reviewed files against existing office procedures for compliance; and/or I have successfully completed an introductory personnel program related training course. I have completed and submitted vacancy posting materials for vacant positions; and/or I have determined eligibility and suitability for employment; and/or I have maintained applicant files; and/or I have advised management and staff on technical personnel issues and concerns. None of the above. 5 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to communicate with others by writing in a clear and concise manner, while following established rules and guidelines. He/she will be required to write a variety of personnel related correspondence and documents . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared responses to unusual or unique personnel issues; and/or I have composed memorandum for supervisor’s signature; and/or I have prepared meeting summary form meeting minutes; and/or I have prepared a draft newsletter article; and/or I have created an e-mail to explain new policy to employees. I have prepared select and non-select letters to applicants; and/or I have prepared reminders for open seasons; and/or I have compiled meeting minutes into a report for all participants; and/or I have drafted a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming hiring event. I have written a status report on a department project; and/or I have prepared and routed inter-office correspondence; and/or I have prepared informational e-mails in draft form; and/or I have prepared routine responses to inquiries regarding training procedures. None of the above. 6 The Human Resource Specialist must possess the ability to plan and organize work in order to manage multiple responsibilities. He/she is responsible for ensuring tracking tools are maintained, files, and logs are organized and accurate to support the work managed by the Human Resource Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the coordination of new employee orientation training; and/or I have submitted personnel action for processing using existing protocols; and/or I have provided separating staff with exit survey or benefit information; and/or I have generated and reviewed payroll reports for supervisor; and/or I have analyzed organizational charts in comparison with staffing reports for annual updates. I have reviewed and finalized hiring certificates before expiration date; and/or I have maintained a tracking system for incoming/outgoing correspondence; and/or I have created personal “task/checklist” for projects in order to remember steps that must be completed; and/or I have maintained and updated a database from task completed by others. I have maintained an existing filing system; and/or I have made travel arrangements for the department; and/or I have reconciled credit card statement; and/or I have completed meeting minutes for review and approval; and/or I have conducted physical inventory of accountable property. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Human Resource Specialist deals with people of various backgrounds, institutional, regional and central office staff. He/she must demonstrate effective oral communication skills, expressing technical information clearly and concisely. Contacts require the ability to meet and deal in an impartial manner. He/she must be skilled in interpersonal communication to conduct interviews, orientations, and seminars. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted agency headquarters for guidance on Human Resource policies and procedures; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews; and/or I have briefed management on personnel selections; and/or I have responded to administrative/technical questions from management; and/or I have answered questions on promotion procedures; and/or I have updated supervisors on the status of promotion actions. I have answered questions regarding application procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding vacancy/training announcements; and/or I have vouchered applicants for employment; and/or I have contacted applicants to schedule interviews. I have conducted pre-employment interviews; and/or I have provided guidance to management on position classification, labor management relations, or leave policies; and/or I have responded to questions regarding an applicant qualifications for a position; and/or I have given an oral presentation to management on the results of a survey; and/or I have at job fairs, spoken to potential applicants about career opportunities. None of the above. 3 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to communicate with others by writing in a clear and concise manner, while following established rules and guidelines. He/she will be required to write a variety of personnel related correspondence and documents . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written position descriptions; and/or I have prepared justifications for above the minimum and/or recruitment bonus requests; and/or I have prepared memoranda or letters for supervisors or Executive Staff signature; and/or I have prepared e-mail messages to provide personnel information and to solicit information from others. I have prepared select and non-select letters to applicants; and/or I have prepared reminders for open seasons; and/or I have compiled meeting minutes into a report for all participants; and/or I have drafted a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming hiring event. I have prepared responses to unusual or unique personnel issues; and/or I have composed memorandum for supervisor’s signature; and/or I have prepared meeting summary form meeting minutes; and/or I have prepared a draft newsletter article; and/or I have created an e-mail to explain new policy to employees. None of the above. 4 The Human Resource Specialist must be able to interpret and apply a wide variety of federal regulations from the Office of Personnel Management, agency specific policies, and other instructional/regulatory materials to effectively advise others. He/she must keep abreast of human resources related information to present to the workforce. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided employee with desk audit information; and/or I have determined employee’s eligibility for a competitive promotion; and/or I have assisted in preparing a detail-for-training opportunity announcements; and/or I have keyed various personnel actions I have provided information to management on special hiring programs; and/or I have ensured that all pre-employment forms were filed and properly completed prior to enter on duty date; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding guidance from the Office of Personnel Management and/or agency personnel. I have provided information to management on performance program requirements; and/or I have gathered information for an applicant objection package; and/or I have resolved employee issues regarding benefits; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding Office of Personnel Management and/or agency personnel and regulations. None of the above. 5 The Human Resource Specialist must have a comprehensive knowledge of personnel policies, regulations, and guidelines as well as personnel trends, research, and literature. This knowledge is necessary in order to interpret and apply guidelines and regulations in such areas as position classification, staffing, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), performance evaluations and incentive awards, labor management relations, and disciplinary/adverse actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed and submitted vacancy posting materials for vacant positions; and/or I have determined eligibility and suitability for employment; and/or I have maintained applicant files; and/or I have advised management and staff on technical personnel issues and concerns. I have requested and processed a certificate of eligible candidates; and/or I have prepared and processed merit promotion certificates; and/or I have determined applicant qualifications for a position; and/or I have audited promotion board files for adherence to human resource policy; and/or I have researched and identified resources to answer personnel questions; and/or I have responded to questions on employee benefits; and/or I have determined proper pay setting for new employees. I have reviewed award recommendation for accuracy; and/or I have responded to a routine question regarding application procedures; and/or I have coded and processed a personnel action; and/or I have responded to an inquiry about service computation dates for leave and retirement purposes. None of the above. 6 The Human Resource Specialist must possess the ability to plan and organize work in order to manage multiple responsibilities. He/she is responsible for ensuring tracking tools are maintained, files, and logs are organized and accurate to support the work managed by the Human Resource Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the coordination of new employee orientation training; and/or I have submitted personnel action for processing using existing protocols; and/or I have provided separating staff with exit survey or benefit information; and/or I have generated and reviewed payroll reports for supervisor; and/or I have analyzed organizational charts in comparison with staffing reports for annual updates. I have assisted in scheduling pre-employment interviews; and/or I have tracked pending personnel actions and requested update; and/or I have organized case materials in preparation of a labor relations hearing; and/or I have arranged sponsors/vendors for an employee benefit event. I have reviewed and finalized hiring certificates before expiration date; and/or I have maintained a tracking system for incoming/outgoing correspondence; and/or I have created personal “task/checklist” for projects in order to remember steps that must be completed; and/or I have maintained and updated a database from task completed by others. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).