Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining plumbing/piping systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of plumbing/piping systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with maintaining plumbing/piping systems under direct supervision from others. I have independently maintained plumbing/piping systems. I have trained others on the procedures for performing plumbing/piping work. None of the above. 2 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience performing welding duties: Answer to this question is required I have independently performed all of the following duties. I am consulted by other employees or in difficult situations regarding performance of the following duties: complete penetration as well as complete fusion of base and filler metals; brazing soldering, flame and arc cutting, surface hardening, annealing, and metal spraying; full range of ironwork skills; and laying out and cutting steel in close tolerances. I have performed the majority of the following duties with minimal supervision: brazing soldering, flame and arc cutting, surface hardening, annealing, and metal spraying; made a wide-range of welds, from simple to precision welding, including welds of dissimilar metals. I have performed the majority of the following duties under close supervision: the ability to perform the full range of duties of a welder, use templates, jigs, blueprints and other guides to repair, modify or fabricate metal items, welds metal parts and structures, in situations that require more than ordinary skill and care, with close supervision. My experience does not match any of the statements above. 3 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience applying safety practices at work. Answer to this question is required I personally adhered to existing safety practices on the job. I ensured that other workers adhered to existing safety practices. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required. I have reminded co-workers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of myself and others when performing work tasks. I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. None of the above. 4 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience installing plumbing fixtures. Answer to this question is required I have independently installed plumbing fixtures. I assisted a more senior worker with performing the installation steps. I retrieved tools or materials for a senior worker who was installing a plumbing fixture. I completed education or training on methods to install plumbing fixtures, but I have not yet applied this knowledge at work. I do not have education, training, or experience installing plumbing fixtures. 5 Choose the statements that demonstrate your knowledge and ability regarding pipefitting layout and measurement. Answer to this question is required Extensive knowledge of layout and pattern development by parallel line, radial line, and triangulation enabling more difficult layout and pattern work. Knowledge of shop mathematics enabling layout angles, arcs, and circles in performing work such as calculating and aligning pipes, joints, and valves; and installing proper braces and supports to control movement and vibration. Planned and laid out routing, placement, pitch, incline, and elevation of piping systems and equipment allowing for expansion and contracting. Selected the proper methods and planned work sequences for repairing and installing piping sections or to plan and layout plumbing work such as routing, placement, slant, and slope of utility, supply, and disposal systems for the distribution of sewage, water, oil, gas, and compressed air. None of the above. 6 Which measurement tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have used a tape measure to measure piping. I have converted feet to inches. I have converted inches to feet. I have converted psi to foot of head. None of the above. 7 Which piping systems and equipment have you repaired, modified or installed? Answer to this question is required Steam heating Steam generation Chilled Water Heating Hot Water Sprinkler System Circulating pumps Radiators None of the above 8 Which pipefitting-related tools or equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Pipe threader Welder Plasma Cutter Pro-Press SeeSnake / recordable sewer pipe camera Carbon dioxide / electric freeze kits T-drill Voltmeter None of the above 9 Do you have welding experience? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Have you tested systems and equipment for proper circulation, flow, pressure, and leak-free joints? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Do you have experience troubleshooting steam piping, returns, fittings, fixtures, and equipment in a commercial environment? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with codes and standards related to pipefitting or plumbing? Answer to this question is required I completed training or education on these codes/standards. I performed pipefitting work under close supervision that adhered to these codes/standards. I have independently performed pipefitting work that adhered to these codes/standards. I reviewed others work to ensure it met codes/standards. None of the above. 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 14 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.