Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level or meet the education as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Legal Access Officer coordinates and facilitates the legal community&rsquo;s access to clients who are confined at Bureau of Prisons pretrial detention centers. The Legal Access Officer manages changing work priorities and is responsible for performing duties in a timely manner. The Legal Access Officer also devises new methods/procedures to enhance the efficient operation of the facility, promote efficient legal access, and deal with changing priorities as determined by court-imposed deadlines/the Consolidated Legal Center (CLC). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained co-workers and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made adjustments to accomplish day-to-day work; and/or I have identified beneficial software-hardware for the office and made a recommendation which was approved. I have answered basic questions posed by less experienced co-workers to maintain orderly workflow; and/or I have worked with less experienced staff in coordinating conferences to include tasks such as researching issues as assigned by team leader/supervisor; and/or I have maintained docket calendar and coordinated schedules with clerks of courts keeping legal staff (attorneys) informed of court appearances and deadlines; and/or I have notified witnesses of appearance and of changes in court dates. I have organized and maintained logging/tracking system for all work categories in office (i.e., Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)/Privacy Act requests, Congressional inquiries); and/or I have reviewed court orders and took appropriate follow up measures to assist with compliance; and/or I have responded defense attorney inquiries regarding access to their client; and/or I have processed/responded timely to incoming mail/inquiries from legal representatives of those detained in Bureau of Prisons custody and from courts; and/or I have routed documents/inquiries for other departments to the appropriate officials for review, response/signature; and/or I have coordinated, retrieved, and assembled various background material for use in projects/litigation; and/or I have assisted less experienced staff in meeting all timelines and due dates. None of the above. 3 The Legal Access Officer reads and reviews a variety of documents such as letters from defense attorneys, correspondence from stakeholders (i.e., Attorney&rsquo;s Office, United States Marshals Service, United States Probation) Federal Tort Claims, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, administrative remedies, and court orders. The Legal Access Officer takes appropriate action or makes recommendations on an initial course of action to take, to compile background information necessary for further action, to maintain files, and to review outgoing material while ensuring compliance with Bureau of Prisons policy. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have read and interpreted travel regulations to resolve a travel issue/question from a lower-level staff; and/or I have read and interpreted policy on legal access matters; and/or I have trained and evaluated, with input provided to team leader/supervisor, clerical staff in using procedural or operations guidelines; and/or I have after analyzing, interpreted/written local office procedures/policies which were adopted by management. I have coordinated the compilation and distribution of periodic mailings to attorneys and paralegal; and/or I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned for corrections to originator; and/or I have gathered and assembled background information for special projects/requests and recommended format for organizing information. I have independently analyzed and prepared budget report for cost center manager and made recommendation for cost-cutting; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted Sentry data; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted procedures for closing case files. None of the above. 4 The Legal Access Officer must possess sound written communication skills. The Legal Access Officer communicates with individuals from other agencies, attorneys and their clients detained in Bureau of Prison custody, paralegal specialists, inmates, staff, court officials and the public. The Legal Access Officer also obtains and exchanges factual information regarding various legal issues and proofreads and edits their own work and that of others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered sensitive information and composed letters, memos, and forms; and/or I have prepared minutes and notes of a specialized and sensitive nature from internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have edited final correspondence/minutes/notes prepared by others; and/or I have prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written office procedures; and/or I have gathered and summarized background information for supervisor. I have retrieved and interpreted data from a computer system (Sentry); and/or I have responded to time sensitive inquiries; and/or I have interpreted regulations and policies regarding the Bureau of Prisons procedures for administrative remedies; and/or I have edited final responses for administrative remedies and those of others; and/or I have drafted and sent substantive responses to internal staff, inmates, attorneys with clients detained in Bureau of Prison custody, outside officials, or agencies which did not require supervisory approval. I have reviewed correspondence, technical in nature, prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared preliminary agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering technical information and preparing a congressional response. None of the above. 5 The Legal Access Officer must be able to communicate clearly and effectively with individuals in various government agencies and organizations including the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, senior executives, supervisors, co-workers, and many other external groups/individuals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided formal training for legal assistant staff or other staff; and/or I have provided sensitive case information to other legal staff; and/or I have contacted and exchanged specialized information with a witness in a legal case; and/or I have researched and gathered information to verbally respond to appropriate court/public requests; and/or I have verified or exchanged information with legal staff in the institutions, regions or external legal offices. I have responded to individuals with various policy questions; and/or I have provided technical information to courts/other administrative bodies; and/or I have presented information during Introduction to Correctional Techniques (ICT) II. I have rafter an institution incident, conducted formal, mass inmate interviews to obtain information; and/or I have presented information to a small focus group; and/or I have advised supervisor of project status. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).