Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) or Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree from a school approved by the American Dental Association (ADA) or&nbsp;the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND B. Applicants must have passed the National Board Dental Examinations (NBDE) which are developed and administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE) and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. AND C. Applicants must have one or more full years of experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing professional dentistry work for GS-12 level and above assignments.&nbsp; AND D. Applicants must be able to distinguish shades of color. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST provide transcripts and dental license documentation to receive consideration. Documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded. 2 In addition to meeting the above basic requirements, Applicants must have completed one year of full-time experience in professional dentistry work that is equivalent to the next lower grade level; or equivalent experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, and/or training.&nbsp; Do you meet the additional requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Dental Officer must have the ability to recognize dental diseases and provide appropriate professional treatment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed hemi-section of multi-rooted molars on teeth that have perio/endo lesions; and/or I have performed endodontic re-treatment or retrograde fillings on anterior teeth (abscessed with calcified canals or failed previous obturation); and/or I have performed periodontal surgery to correct osseous defects (osseous recontouring and furcation management); and/or I have performed preliminary interpretation of extra oral radiographs (facial and skull series) in assessing the trauma patient for fractures. I have diagnosed irreversible pulpititis, abscessed or necrotic molars and provide endodontic treatment using gutta percha; and/or I have managed and provided preventative care to patients who have undergone radiation therapy; and/or I have laid a flap and restored sub-gingival caries; and/or I have properly took and interpreted panoramic and occlusal radiographs. I have diagnosed and treated patients who presented with thrush; and/or I have diagnosed abscessed or necrotic bicuspid teeth and provided endodontic treatment using gutta percha, or hybrid techniques; and/or I have managed and provided preventative periodontal treatment for patients diagnosed with diabetes; and/or I have taken, mounted and interpreted full mouth radiographic series. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Dental Officer may encounter difficult patients and must utilize good communication skills in relaying and/or demonstrating proper dental care.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained the relationship of good oral hygiene and nutrition related to dental caries and periodontal disease; and/or I have explained how basic nutrition and the abstinence from tobacco and alcohol relates to good oral health; and/or I have counseled patients regarding the risk factor for oral cancer. I have instructed and developed program for patients who are mentally ill; and/or I have instructed and developed program for patients who have profound physical handicaps; and/or I have instructed and provided care for patients with closed head injuries. I have instructed and developed a program for nursing home, geriatric, patients about root caries and other related health problems; and/or I have instructed and developed a program for mildly retarded patients about oral health; and/or I have communicated and coordinated care for institutionalized and or incarcerated patients. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Dental Officer is responsible for exodontia and routine oral surgery.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed excisional and incisional biopsy; and/or I have performed excision of benign minor tumors (ex. fibroma); and/or I have performed mucosal/gingival flap procedures (can lay a full thickness flap)-mucogingival surgeries and flap management; and/or I have performed extractions on soft tissue impacted 3rd molars; and/or I have performed treatment of avulsed teeth. I have provided care for minor lacerations (suture and post-operative management); and/or I have performed incisional biopsy of oral lesions; and/or I have performed extractions on multi-rooted (molar) teeth, to include sectioning; and/or I have performed simple alveoplasty. I have removed mandibular and palatal torus; and/or I have performed hemi-section of multi-rooted molars; and/or I have performed apicoectomy; and/or I have performed extraction of partially bony impacted molar; and/or I have performed complex/multiple (serial) extractions (more than 10 teeth) and pre-prosthetic alveo- and gingivoplasty; and/or I have managed intra- and extraoral facial trauma/lacerations. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Dental Officer must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas.&nbsp; He/she is also responsible for providing opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided clinical supervision to another dentist seeking licensure; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established an improvement plan; and/or I have set priorities to accomplish specific tasks for subordinates; and/or I have developed a group of subordinates into a cohesive team; and/or I have enhanced a subordinates’ potential for achieving their career goals; and/or while serving as a supervisor, I have improved the performance of a department or work unit, and conducted formal employee performance evaluations; and/or I have worked with people outside of own department/work group to achieve a unit or agency goal. I have served as a leader of an organization directing others; and/or I have completed assignments in a timely fashion with minimal supervision; and/or I have served as the leader of a major project or task that involved the cooperation of others outside of their own work group. I have performed supervisory duties by serving in an acting capacity as a first line supervisor and participating in a management mentoring program; and/or I have reviewed the work of others to ensure compliance with policy and leads a work group to achieve a specific objective; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of your own workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Dental Officer must be able to determine patient treatment needs and select appropriate dental materials and fabricate prosthetics to restore dentition. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and delivered maxillary/mandibular partial denture (removable); and/or I have restored an edentulous space with a 3 unit fixed bridge; and/or I have provided quadrant dentistry to patients; and/or I have designed and delivered a full denture that will oppose natural dentition. I have designed and delivered an over denture on retained abutment teeth; and/or I have placed periodontal intracoronal/extracoronal splinting for stabilization (wire and composite/casting, occlusal equilibrations); and/or I have designed, selected and placed a cast or prefabricated post. I have restored existing implants and maintained these after restoration; and/or I have reestablished the vertical dimensional and occlusion in a patient requiring a fixed partial bridge or provisionals (full mouth rehab); and/or I have designed and delivered prosthetics for patients having existing precision attachments prosthetic cases; and/or I have prepared immediate complete dentures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).