Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-5 grade level or higher. I am currently at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement because I am below the GS-02 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level or higher. Within the past 52 weeks I have been at either the GS/GL-3 or GS/GL-4 grade level. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-02. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Health Information Technician will have daily contact with professional medical and non-medical staff, support service personnel, and patients. He/she communicates patient history information contained within the medical record, as required. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes you experience. I have communicated medical trip information to escort staff; and/or I have relayed information/messages to administrators/medical staff/other departmental staff; and/or I have directed patients to appropriate destination. I have instructed staff on locating basic patient information in the health record; and/or I have instructed staff on gathering/maintaining proper documentation; and/or I have responded to requests for information/assistance from patients/inmates. I have responded to requests for assistance under direction; and/or I have relayed information regarding patients to facilitate care; and/or I have communicated with physicians to schedule patients. None of the above 5 The Health Information Technician respond to requests from outside sources requesting release of Bureau of Prison (BOP) medical information. He/she is responsible for releasing information in compliance with the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes you experience. I have logged requests into database; and/or I have made copies of records as directed; and/or I have assisted in maintaining statistics on the number of requests processed. I have, with assistance, reviewed medical record for information to be released; and/or I have applied correct fee for release of records; and/or I have reviewed release of information forms for policy compliance. I have received guidance on how to process a non-routine request for release of information; and/or I have delivered prepared copies of requested information to requestor; and/or I have prepared a report regarding volume of requests. None of the above 6 The Health Information Technician must possess knowledge and skills to operate word processing equipment and use a personal computer to perform SENTRY, word processing, electronic health record and other automated administrative functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes you experience. I have entered/retrieved data from database; and/or I have utilized software with direction; and/or I have retrieved information under direction. I have updated patient information as directed; and/or I have entered data on an existing departmental form; and/or I have input statistical data with assistance; and/or I have printed reports as directed. I have retrieved daily reports under direction; and/or I have assisted with the input of statistical data with minimal errors; and/or I have retrieved commonly used information with guidance. None of the above 7 The Health Information Technician must possess knowledge of current medical record science, techniques, and procedures. This includes knowledge of specialized medical terminology, anatomy, and physiology, and disease processes of each anatomical system. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes you experience. I have assisted non-medical staff in interpreting commonly used terms; and/or I have scanned reports to the correct specialty and applied correct medical terminology title; and/or I have recognized and interpreted coded data. I have coded routine records; and/or I have prepared medical forms; and/or I have scheduled patient appointments using basic medical terminology. I have arranged reports in terminal digit and straight numerical sequence; and/or I have retrieved medical information for authorized staff; and/or I have filed/scanned loose reports into corresponding medical record. None of the above 8 The Health Information Technician analyze the contents of complex medical records for compliance with Bureau of Prison (BOP) and accreditation requirements. He/she notes deficiencies/inconsistencies and implements corrective action. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes you experience. I have provided required test results for local and state health department; and/or I have collected information in preparation of audits/studies; and/or I have archived inactive records in preparation for storage. I have reviewed documentation requirements prior to filing/scanning; and/or I have assisted in maintaining records in accordance with regulations; and/or I have assisted in auditing of medical records. I have performed audits of medical records; and/or I have identified problems with documentation; and/or I have assisted with performance of quality improvement study. None of the above Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement; HOWEVER, I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, AND I was not previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( I.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Health Information Technician will have daily contact with professional medical and non-medical staff, support service personnel, and patients. He/she communicates patient history information contained within the medical record, as required. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made oral presentations to small groups within Health Services; and/or I have trained new employees on departmental procedures; and/or I have consulted with medical staff for clarification of medical information. I have responded to requests for assistance under direction; and/or I have relayed information regarding patients to facilitate care; and/or I have communicated with physicians to schedule patients. I have instructed staff on locating basic patient information in the health record; and/or I have instructed staff on gathering/maintaining proper documentation; and/or I have responded to requests for information/assistance from patients/inmates. None of the above. 5 The Health Information Technician respond to requests from outside sources requesting release of Bureau of Prison (BOP) medical information. He/she is responsible for releasing information in compliance with the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed and discussed how to process a non-routine request for release of information; and/or I have delivered prepared copies of requested information to requestor; and/or I have prepared report regarding volume of requests. I have provided training to work unit staff regarding release of information; and/or I have reviewed copies of records for release of information requests; and/or I have determined proper handling of requests for information based on requestor. I have logged requests into database; and/or I have made copies of records as directed; and/or I have assisted in maintaining statistics on the number of requests processed. None of the above. 6 The Health Information Technician must possess knowledge and skills to operate word processing equipment and use a personal computer to perform SENTRY, word processing, electronic health record and other automated administrative functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated patient information as directed; and/or I have entered data on an existing departmental form; and/or I have input statistical data with assistance; and/or I have printed reports as directed. I have entered/retrieved data from database; and/or I have utilized software with direction; and/or I have retrieved information under direction. I have entered/retrieved information from non-routine applications; and/or I have exported reports to different formats (i.e., Microsoft Word to pdf, etc.) and manipulated data; and/or I have accessed on-line agency information resources. None of the above. 7 The Health Information Technician must possess knowledge of current medical record science, techniques, and procedures. This includes knowledge of specialized medical terminology, anatomy, and physiology, and disease processes of each anatomical system. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coded routine records; and/or I have prepared medical forms; and/or I have scheduled patient appointments using basic medical terminology. I have assisted non-medical staff in interpreting commonly used terms; and/or I have scanned reports to the correct specialty and applied correct medical terminology title; and/or I have recognized and interpreted coded data. I have coded complicated medical records under direction; and/or I have extracted information from medical records for reports; and/or I have organized and compiled medical information prior to a patient’s appointment. None of the above. 8 The Health Information Technician analyze the contents of complex medical records for compliance with Bureau of Prison (BOP) and accreditation requirements. He/she notes deficiencies/inconsistencies and implements corrective action. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed focused reviews of identified problems; and/or I have prepared summary report of medical record audits; and/or I have instructed staff in medical record maintenance. I have performed audits of medical records; and/or I have identified problems with documentation; and/or I have assisted with performance of quality improvement study. I have reviewed documentation requirements prior to filing/scanning; and/or I have assisted in maintaining records in accordance with regulations; and/or I have assisted in auditing of medical records. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).