Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [16869] Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions. High self-assessment in the application questions that is not supported by information in your resume may prevent you from being found best qualified, in which case your application will not be referred to the selecting official. 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.3 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.3 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [54978] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you are aware that Massena has 4 seasons. Winter is the longest season (November through March). The average low temperature in the winter months is 15 degrees F with the average low in January (the coldest month) being 4 degrees F. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [55574] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you understand that: - Massena, NY is located more than 400 miles north (approximately 7 hours) of New York City on the northeast side of the state (near Vermont) and it takes less than ½ hour to drive to Canada. - Massena is located in a very rural part of New York State in St. Lawrence County (pop. 111,000), which is the largest county in New York State comprised of 32 towns, 1 city and 13 villages. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [59324] Do you currently possess a valid State issued Driver's License and a safe driving record? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [31892] Select the option that best describes your experience in carpentry. Answer to this question is required I have completed journey level training in this field, but have no journey level experience. (this training must be listed on your resume). I have had training and have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified by a position on your resume). I have not had training, but have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified by a position on your resume). I have performed minor household repairs. I have nailed, sanded, and cut material using handheld and non-professional electrical tools. My measurements are rough and generally not precise. I have mixed concrete by hand or with mixer with material proportions determined by others. I have performed house construction duties assisting a Carpenter. I have made rough measurements without supervision, and nailed, sanded, and cut materials using handheld and professional electrical tools. I have built simple decks and other simple structures without direct supervision. I have assisted in constructing, installing and modifying concrete forms, pre-hung windows, pre-hung doors, and/or in laying brick and block level. I have assisted a Carpenter in performing house and industrial construction duties; made all rough measurements without supervision and precise measurement with supervision; mixed concrete determining own proportions. I have nailed, sanded, and cut all nature of materials using all nature of tools, including shop equipment, under supervision. I have assisted in constructing and installing building frames, rafters, concrete forms, walls, doors and windows. I have little or no experience in this field. 7 [31696] Select the option that best describes your experience in electrical work. Answer to this question is required I have safely assisted an Electrician while performing installation or maintenance duties in the proximity of 120 volts in a commercial environment. I have bent and installed conduit with direct supervision. I have completed journey level training in this field, but have no journey level experience. (This training must be listed on your resume) I have had training and have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified on your resume). I have not had training, but have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified on your resume). I have replaced outlets and switches in a pre-wired house. I have assisted an Electrician in wiring a house or similar 120 volt application. I have installed wiring under direct instruction. I have safely assisted an Electrician while performing installation or maintenance duties in the proximity of up to 480 volts. I have little or no experience in this field. 8 [31695] Select the statement that best describes your experience directing and assigning work. Answer to this question is required I have never given work assignments to others; I do what is required of me and wait for further instructions. I sometimes interpret instructions for other employees or explain work assignments to new employees. I work well as a member of a team. I have worked on teams where I was accepted as the group leader. I take responsibility for getting the work done by taking the initiative to get a group task going. I have worked as a supervisor and have the ability to organize and delegate work assignments successfully. 9 [1083] Choose the description that most accurately describes your ability to train others in work processes. Answer to this question is required I have never provided training or instructions to others. I have trained others outside of the work area (e.g. coaching sports, religious instruction, etc.). I have infrequently provided training to employees in work processes related to this position (e.g. work techniques, use of tools, computer and/or manual operating controls, and/or safety practices). I regularly provide training to others in work processes related to this position (e.g. work techniques, use of tools, computer and/or manual operating controls, and/or safety practices). 10 [52152] Select the response that best describes your knowledge and experience with computers and/or computerized controls. Answer to this question is required I have never used a computer or worked with computerized controls. I have had some computer training, but limited practical use. I mainly use a computer to send and receive e-mail. I have limited experience using computerized controls at work on a touch screen (for example an automated keyless entry system). I use a computer on a regular basis at home or at work and have experience entering data. I have experience using computerized controls, using a keyboard or a mouse, to operate equipment in order to complete work assignments. 11 [31708] Choose the description that accurately describes your experience operating computer/touch screen/PLC Controlled machinery that performs multiple sequenced operations (i.e. locks and dams, manufacturing/assembling, etc.). Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience. I have operated such machinery with close supervision. I have operated such machinery independently. I have operated such machinery independently and was called upon to train others and/or troubleshoot problems. 12 [3634] Select the type(s)of safety training you have successfully completed. Answer to this question is required Ladder/scaffold Fall Protection Respiratory Protection Overhead Crane Operation Crane Signaling Hazard Communication (HazCom) Lifting/Back Protection Asbestos Lead Confined Space Lock Out/Tag Out Small Craft Operator/Rules of the Road None of the above 13 [915] Select the safety equipment that you have regularly used in your work. Answer to this question is required Safety Shoes Safety Glasses Safety Harness Respiratory Devices Personal Floatation Device Confined Space Meter Hard Hat Grounding Straps Rubber work gloves I have not used any of these items regularly in my work. 14 [912] I have used respirators while working with: Answer to this question is required Chemicals, including paints Silica Asbestos Lead Welding/Burning work None of the above 15 [31693] Choose the statement that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions, such as in inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have used proper lifting and bending techniques while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions. I have applied my knowledge of generally safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. 16 [924] Have you had a motor vehicle accident within the last two years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 [31692] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience with linehandling. Your experience must be thoroughly described on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have no linehandling experience. I have no linehandling experience, but I do have experience docking small boats. I have some knowledge and experience in lining commercial ships or military vessels dockside and/or shipboard. I have knowledge and experience in lining commercial ships or military vessels gained by working at lock structures similar or equal to the Saint Lawrence Seaway. 18 [1051] Select the option that best describes your experience as a laborer. Answer to this question is required I have dug holes and ditches, mowed lawns using walking mowers, lifted and carried loads up to 50 pounds, shoveled snow, and safely used hand tools. I have signaled cranes lifting or lowering light non-critical loads working closely with the Crane Operator; operated safely electrical hand tools, mowed lawns using lawn tractors and removed snow using snow blowers or lawn tractors safely with blade or blower. I have signaled cranes lifting or lowering heavy critical loads and personnel working closely with the crane operator, operated safely bobcat and forklift, operated safely electrical hand tools, mowed lawns using lawn tractors and removed snow using snow blowers or lawn tractors safely with blade or blower. None of the above 19 [31891] Select the option that best describes your experience in millwright work (industrial equipment mechanic). Answer to this question is required I have completed journey level training in this field, but have no journey level experience. (this training must be listed on your resume). I have had training and have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified by a position on your resume). I have not had training, but have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified by a position on your resume). I have greased gears and lubricated machinery independently after general instruction. I have identified tools and materials requested by a Mechanic, Millwright, or Pipefitter in an industrial environment. I have greased gears and lubricated machinery under the instruction of a Millwright. I have selected the proper size pipe, fitting or tool when requested by a Plumber. I have assisted in the installation of water fixtures in an office or home environment. I have greased gears and lubricated machinery independently after general instruction. I have selected the proper size pipe, fitting, or tool when requested by a Pipefitter. I have assisted in the installation of air, water, and sewer pipe. I have assisted in the installation or repair of machinery involving gears, bushings, bearings, springs, etc. I have selected and used wrenches and mechanical tools. I have little or no experience in this field. 20 [31890] Select the option that best describes your experience in painting. Answer to this question is required I have completed journey level training in this field, but have no journey level experience. (this training must be listed on your resume). I have had training and have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified by a position on your resume). I have not had training, but have worked at the journey level in this field for at least one year (this must be verified by a position on your resume). I have used brushes and rollers to apply latex paints and stains to wood surfaces (i.e. interior/exterior walls) of houses and offices. I have cleaned the brushes and rollers using common household methods. I have prepared a variety of surfaces (primarily wood and metal) using chemicals and portable and fixed blast equipment with minimal supervision. I have, under the supervision of a Painter, applied high performance coatings using a variety of applicators including spray guns. I have used brushes and rollers to apply a variety of paints and stains to a variety of surfaces under the close supervision of a Painter. I have followed instructions and, with close supervision, prepared surfaces for painting, including the safe use of chemicals (solvents, acid and detergents) or abrasives. I have little or no experience in this field. 21 [31709] Select all tools that you used on a regular basis in your work experiences. Answer to this question is required Ammeters Cement Mixers Concrete Vibrators Compactors Jack Hammers Multimeters Pipe/Conduit Benders Roto Hammers Soldering Equipment Table Saws Voltmeters Oxygen Acetylene Torches None of the above 22 [60925]&nbsp;Which of the following best describes your experience measuring, cutting and installing material for various projects using on-site measurements, verbal directions, or simple drawings and specifications? Answer to this question is required I have performed these tasks independently as a regular part of my job, and normally without review by a senior employee or supervisor. I routinely work independently on these tasks, but I may require some assistance with large, unusual or complicated tasks. I routinely work on these tasks as part of a team or alone under the supervision of a senior employee or supervisor. I have training in performing these tasks, but have not yet preformed them on the job. I do not have any experience or training performing these tasks. 23 [1066] Choose the description that best describes your ability to follow instructions. Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience following written or oral instructions at work without direct supervision. I have followed written or oral instructions to perform routine maintenance work with direct supervision. I have demonstrated the ability to independently interpret blueprints and technical manuals for routine maintenance work with minimal supervision. I have demonstrated superior ability in interpreting and explaining instructions, blueprints, new procedures, and safe operation methods to others. I have demonstrated the ability to use maintenance manuals to perform more than routine maintenance on a variety of mechanical equipment with little or no supervision. 24 [61332] Select all of the following instruction methods and guidelines that you have successfully interpreted, applied and/or followed on the job. Answer to this question is required Instruction manuals Blueprints Sketches Verbal instructions Written instructions Standard Operating Procedures Mathematical Calculations Metric Conversion Charts Work requests Schematics Building Plans None of the above. 25 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 26 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 27 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 28 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 29 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 29.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 29.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 29.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer 30 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 31 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 32 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 33 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 34 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).