Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., from an accredited college or university in the field of law or other fields related to the position to be filled. I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience (as described above) that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience with applying the nationality laws of the United States? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. 6 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Select from the following list all instances that indicate your experience related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination. Answer to this question is required published in peer reviewed journal. created working papers or research reports. completed a dissertation. completed a master's thesis. presented paper(s) at professional conferences. written policy position papers/briefs. None of the above 8 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. I have performed none of the above. 9 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers, states, and outside organizations? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience in integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 12 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, and/or experience in performing this task. 13 Do you have experience explaining rules and regulations to members of the public and/or other non-technical audiences orally? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Research and/or development grant proposals Peer reviewed papers (e.g., journal articles, book chapters) Standardized reports Policy / Position Papers (e.g., briefing paper) Formal Correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high-level officials) Methodology Papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training related to the examination and adjudication of citizenship determination? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses and or had training in citizenship law. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on citizenship law. I majored in an area related to citizenship law in college. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in citizenship law. 16 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 17 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above 18 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa, passport and/or immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa, passport and/or immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa, passport and/or immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa, passport and/or immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa, passport and/or immigrations issues or have published on these subjects. 19 Which of the following best describes your highest level of coursework and/or training devoted to citizenship law? Answer to this question is required I have not taken any college courses and or had training in citizenship law. I have at least one college-level course or basic training on citizenship law. I majored in an area related to citizenship law in college. I have taken graduate-level courses or had extensive training in citizenship law. 20 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 21 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.