Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Regional Correctional Programs Administrators advise, counsel, and instruct individuals on a variety of issues that impact programs and services provided to inmates confined within correctional facilities. In order to perform the tasks associated with their position, they must be able to communicate extensively in their interactions with others. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served on a task force with the Executive Staff to develop and modify institutional programs; and/or I have served as an alternative Public Information Officer for the organization; and/or I have provided training to mid-level managers; and/or I have participated as a team member of a counseling group after a disturbance. I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding public affairs issues; and/or I have participated on a workgroup which included members of the Executive Staff of other agencies; and/or I have presented agency statements to national news media; and/or I have assisted representing the agency at a briefing with members of Congress and their staff. I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve critical issues; and/or I have participated in community-based meeting to promote the agency/organization. None of the above. 5 Regional Correctional Programs Administrators are accountable for the initiation, review, and editing of a wide variety of correspondence pertaining to sensitive and difficult correctional program concerns. They must have exceptional writing skills and be able to compose letters, memorandums, and reports from analytical data. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed and edited correspondence regarding inmates with special security concerns and ensured proper documentation to support recommendations redesignating dangerous inmates; and/or I have initiated complex, written reports analyzing statistical data, such as, trends within population characteristics or demographic information; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries from outside agencies. I have prepared position paper justifying decisions made by the agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manuals/procedural guides explaining laws, rules, and regulations for new correctional programs staff; and/or I have prepared a response to Program Review or comparable outside audit evaluators concerning program procedures. I have prepared technical reports for supervisor from historical data; and/or I have responded to a Congressional inquiry regarding constituent concern; and/or I have prepared a statement on an institutional issue for media release. None of the above. 6 Regional Correctional Programs Administrators work with other correctional staff in developing policies, plans, and programs to facilitate management of correctional programs. The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in programs areas and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes. I have collected information and made recommendations to increase institution security; and/or I have gathered data for evaluating agency practices and proposed changes aimed at reducing barriers to equal employment opportunity; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended appropriate disciplinary procedures. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity, and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws, and regulations. I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices, and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have reviewed Program/Operational Reviews and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. None of the above. 7 Regional Correctional Programs Administrators oversee program and case management activities for the region. However, they must have an understanding of the program and operational components as they relate to individual institutions. A thorough understanding enables them to properly plan and implement programs for the inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have been a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have acted as Associate Warden at an institution; and/or I have participated in a task force to increase security measures, and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired program or operational review, or comparable internal/external audit and certified compliance. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have served on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. I have made recommendations to CEO on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have served as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented Institution Familiarization Training or New Employee Orientation to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have participated in Program or Operational review. None of the above. 8 Regional Correctional Programs Administrators must possess comprehensive knowledge of Case Management, custody classification, and Unit Management policies and procedures. This knowledge is required to effectively provide technical guidance and assistance, and develop policy, plans, and programs in the areas of Case and Unit Management. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a Case/Unit Management checklist for procedures that were implemented facility wide; and/or I have provided Case/Unit Management policy interpretations to others; and/or I have assisted in a specialized project related to Case/Unit Management. I have successfully led a management component in correctional programs within a correctional environment; and/or I have served as a technical expert in Case Management issues and reported directly to the Executive Staff of an institution; and/or I have successfully served as a program coordinator for such programs as the FRP, release preparation, VWP, etc. I have developed and implemented a training curriculum for a new Case Management initiative that was implemented region or agency wide; and/or I have chaired a workgroup/task force charged with the responsibility of identifying methods/resources needed to streamline current Case/Unit Management functions; and/or I have participated on a workgroup which developed agency/organization wide Case Management policies and procedures, based on changes in legislation. I have served in a supervisory capacity at the institutional level and directed the activities of a program or department within correctional programs; and/or I have reported data and information to program coordinators regarding correctional programs issues; and/or I have established interoffice procedures to handle priority tasks; and/or I have researched policy in completing assigned tasks. I have facilitated a training course on all SENTRY functions necessary to complete correctional programs requirements; and/or I have read various laws and/or regulations, and made a determination of the need for additional policy; and/or I have used new legislative information to make additions to and/or update existing policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).