Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 GS-13: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-13: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best represents your experience with budget-related work? Answer to this question is required I have defended annual budget projections for department / area. I have advocated for department funding. I have created area-wide or bureau-wide budgets. I have created budgets for departments or divisions. I have managed project/operation budgets. None of the above. 4 From the list below select all of the activities in which you have engaged: Answer to this question is required I have never led a team I have led a team consisting of at least four co-workers from my unit to respond to projects that lasted less than 6 months I have led a team consisting of at least four co-workers from my unit to respond to projects that lasted longer than 6 months I have led a multidisciplinary team consisting of workers from my work unit and external units to address an ongoing project that lasted less than 6 months I have led a multidisciplinary team consisting of workers from my work unit and external units to address an ongoing project that lasted longer than 6 months 5 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Subordinates Senior level officials Supervisor Team leaders Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Members of the public Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 6 Please indicate all that you have experience with related to the information technology life cycle: Answer to this question is required Systems development life cycle Federal government information technology acquisition process Capability Maturity Model (CMM) Information technology system/project portfolio management Information technology project management Section 508 Accessibility requirements Information Assurance management Enterprise Architecture Configuration Management Usability Testing Quality Assurance Testing None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience performing systems testing? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, systems testing I have knowledge of, or education in, systems testing but no experience I have assisted in the implementation of a systems test plan I was responsible for implementing part (e.g., stress, regression, unit testing) of a comprehensive test plan I designed and implemented a full scope test plan including stress, regression, unit testing 8 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 9 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience using an automated testing tool to test applications or systems? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, automated testing I have knowledge of, or education in, automated testing but no experience I was responsible for executing automated test cases I designed and implemented automated test cases 10 Which of the following choices best describes your experience with the analysis of software solutions that meet the business processes of the organization? Answer to this question is required I have no experience analyzing software solutions. I have assisted with the analysis of software solutions. I have analyzed and recommended software solutions. 11 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I have produced a technical or policy report that relayed the implications of findings to a larger context I have analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue I have produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results I have collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue None of the above 12 Please describe your knowledge of auditing and evaluating standards, procedures, and practices for planning and/or conducting audits and evaluations involving a variety of programs, functions, and systems. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior auditor. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior auditor. I have supervised other auditors in performing this task. I have trained others in performing this task, and/or others normally consult me for assistance as an expert in performing this task. 13 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics I have knowledge of, or education in information technology performance indicators and their associated metrics but no work experience I have monitored specific metrics and reported on them I have used and interpreted specific metrics and made decisions based on them I have developed performance measures and identified appropriate metrics 14 Please select the choice(s) that describe your experience evaluating customer satisfaction: Answer to this question is required Conducted a customer satisfaction survey. Interviewed customers or clients to obtain information regarding customer needs, preferences, quality standards, etc. Interviewed customers or clients to determine satisfaction. Negotiated with customers or clients to solve problems or meet needs. Exercised tact or diplomacy in negotiations, conflict resolution, and/or dealing with customers or clients holding strong and contrary points of view. None of the above. 15 Select the response that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policies and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 16 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with information technology (IT) asset management? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, IT asset management. I have assisted others in the collection, identification, and/or tracking of IT assets. I have participated in annual IT audits/inventories. I have organized, managed, and/or trained others in the collection, identification and tracking of IT assets. I have lead annual IT audits/inventories on behalf of an organization. 17 Which of the following choices best describes your ability to lead a project with a group outside your immediate organizational unit? Answer to this question is required I have not been a project leader I was a lead on a project that only required working with others within my organizational unit I was a lead on a smaller, highly focused project that required working with representatives from different units outside my organizational unit I was a lead on a large, complex (multi-faceted) project that required working with many representatives from different units outside my organizational unit 18 Which of the following choices best describes the extent to which you have trained others on software and/or hardware? Answer to this question is required I have not conducted training in these areas I have conducted one-on-one training in these areas I have assisted with training for a group of users in these areas I have conducted the training for a group of users in these areas I have coordinated the training for a group of users in these areas Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.