Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based interventions for the management of disruptive behaviors.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional/in-patient population and in the context of a specialized unit.&nbsp; He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric diagnoses and treatment interventions including medications, and the coordination of services with other institution/hospital staff.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others with administering a behavioral modification protocol for a disruptive child or adolescent; and/or I have provided group counseling for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have served as a co-therapist of a treatment group for seriously mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have worked with perpetrators in a domestic violence prevention program. I have provided a clinical treatment program for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have conducted skills training for incarcerated adults/patients with a history of disciplinary problems; and/or I have developed and implemented correctional/behavioral management plans for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically, mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients in a mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to perpetrators of domestic violence; and/or I have provided therapy for an inpatient psychiatric unit for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have provided counseling services for adolescents with a history of acting out behaviors. None of the above. 5 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have expertise in developing and implementing correctional/behavioral/risk management/treatment plans.&nbsp; These plans should apply sound behavioral principles and make appropriate use of cognitive-behavioral/skills training interventions.&nbsp; He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have worked with staff and incarcerated adults/patients to minimize disruptive behaviors in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have provided sessions within a formal behavioral modification program. I have implemented correctional/behavioral management plans within a sex offender management/treatment program; and/or I have implemented behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in an alternative setting; and/or I have conducted behavioral analyses to assess the effectiveness of behavioral/risk management/treatment plans; and/or I have implemented interventions contained within a behavioral/risk management/treatment plan, such as skills training, anger management, or other cognitive-behavioral interventions. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients with assistance; and/or I have assisted co-workers and incarcerated adults/patients to minimize disruptive behaviors in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have served as a treatment provider in a formal behavioral modification program with direction. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: Million Clinical Multiaxial Inventory - IV (MCMI-IV) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory - 3 (MMPI-3) NEO-PI-R Five Factory Inventory (NEO-PI-R) Personality Assessment Inventory - PLUS (PAI-PLUS) Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) (PCL-R-2) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-V-TR (SCID-5-RV) Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) 6 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared at least 10 reports based on findings from administration of the MMPI-3, PAI-PLUS/MCMI-IV; and/or I have conducted structured clinical interviews and prepared reports based upon the findings; and/or I have completed a comprehensive test battery and prepared a report based upon the results. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV 2; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 7 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist plays an important role during institution emergencies, resolving conflicts and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed emotionally distraught incarcerated adults/patients using evidenced-based treatment interventions; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving incarcerated adults/patients in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed incarcerated adults/patients who had threatened self- harm; prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have served as a member of a confrontation avoidance or crisis management team; and/or I have observed the de-escalation of a disruptive behavior incident; and/or I have functioned in the role of a mediator or co-mediator to resolve a conflict; and/or I have served as a crisis counselor for a suicide prevention hotline. I have managed suicidal incarcerated adults/patients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing incarcerated adults/patients whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 8 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the management and treatment of behaviorally disordered offenders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed literature and written a paper on treatment techniques to manage disruptive behaviors; and/or I have prepared a presentation on the treatment of borderline personality disorder; and/or I have completed work assignment on psychopathy. I reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for incarcerated adults/patients engaging in self-harm behaviors; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for a particular behavioral disorder; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. 9 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce.&nbsp; He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback to subordinates on long-term and short-term projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted co-workers in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have overseen the activities of multi-day work related training or other gathering with co-workers; and/or I have been sought out by peers for advice/guidance on work related issues; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of co-workers. I have completed completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology. 3 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia. Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am licensed as a Psychologist. No, I do not possess the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit license for verification. The documentation must show the expiration date of the license. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be knowledgeable about evidence-based interventions for the management of disruptive behaviors.&nbsp; In addition, he/she must have expertise in the delivery of these interventions to a correctional/in-patient population and in the context of a specialized unit.&nbsp; He/she must also have the ability to direct treatment, including clinical case management, the development and implementation of treatment plans, familiarity with psychiatric diagnoses and treatment interventions including medications, and the coordination of services with other institution/hospital staff.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided long term clinical services to an inpatient treatment program for incarcerated adults/patients with an ongoing disciplinary/behavioral problems; and/or I have served as the director of a treatment unit for incarcerated adults/patients with antisocial presentations; and/or I have directed the development and implementation of correctional/behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in a an alternative setting; and/or I have directed the development and implementation of correctional/behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have routinely provided consultation and treatment services within a sub-population unit/setting. I have provided a clinical treatment program for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have conducted skills training for incarcerated adults/patients with a history of disciplinary problems; and/or I have developed and implemented correctional/behavioral management plans for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients. I have facilitated a social skills training group for chronically, mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients in a mental health center; and/or I have provided group counseling to perpetrators of domestic violence; and/or I have provided therapy for an inpatient psychiatric unit for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have provided counseling services for adolescents with a history of acting out behaviors. None of the above. 5 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have expertise in developing and implementing correctional/behavioral/risk management/treatment plans.&nbsp; These plans should apply sound behavioral principles and make appropriate use of cognitive-behavioral/skills training interventions.&nbsp; He/she must have expertise in evidence-based approaches to counseling behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered cognitive-behavioral interventions designed to modify the behavior of personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have worked with staff and incarcerated adults/patients to minimize disruptive behaviors in a sub-population unit/setting; and/or I have provided sessions within a formal behavioral modification program. I have implemented correctional/behavioral management plans within a sex offender management/treatment program; and/or I have implemented behavioral management plans for incarcerated adults/patients housed in an alternative setting; and/or I have conducted behavioral analyses to assess the effectiveness of behavioral/risk management/treatment plans; and/or I have implemented interventions contained within a behavioral/risk management/treatment plan, such as skills training, anger management, or other cognitive-behavioral interventions. I have routinely developed and implemented correctional/risk management/treatment plans with disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have served as a member of a treatment team developing behavioral/risk management/treatment plans for disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have developed and delivered interventions designed to modify an incarcerated adults/patients behavior in a correctional facility/in-patient setting; and/or I have overseen the development and delivery of behavioral/risk management/treatment plans for personality disordered incarcerated adults/patients. None of the above. Use the following information to answer the question below: Million Clinical Multiaxial Inventory - IV (MCMI-IV) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory - 3 (MMPI-3) NEO-PI-R Five Factory Inventory (NEO-PI-R) Personality Assessment Inventory - PLUS (PAI-PLUS) Psychopathy Checklist (Hare) (PCL-R-2) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-V-TR (SCID-5-RV) Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) 6 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must be able to conduct clinical interviews, review available records, administer and interpret psychological tests, and utilize this information to prepare reports and make treatment recommendations based upon these findings.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered and interpreted at least three of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries in a forensic setting; and/or I have routinely administered and interpreted psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients. I have administered and interpreted at least two of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV 2; and/or I have administered psychological test batteries and prepared formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have routinely administered psychological tests to facilitate an accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment of mentally ill incarcerated adults/patients. I have administered and interpreted at least one of the following psychological tests: MCMI-IV, MMPI-3, NEO-PI-R, PAI-PLUS, PCL-R-2, SCID—5-RV, and WAIS-IV; and/or I have completed an internship rotation which required administration of psychological test batteries and preparation of formal reports based on these batteries; and/or I have scored psychological tests and interpreted the results. None of the above. 7 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist plays an important role during institution emergencies, resolving conflicts and crisis situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided evidence-based treatment interventions while working in a community/university crisis center; and/or I have calmed emotionally distraught incarcerated adults/patients using evidenced-based treatment interventions; and/or I have coordinated a mock exercise involving incarcerated adults/patients in an emergency situation by preventing self-inflicted violence or suicide; and/or I have calmed incarcerated adults/patients who had threatened self- harm; prevented a crisis situation from escalating. I have prevented a suicide by providing evidenced based treatment interventions as dictated by a treatment plan for incarcerated adults/patients on suicide watch; and/or I have determined whether incarcerated adults/patients condition is severe or chronic enough to warrant a referral to an inpatient treatment center; and/or I have conducted crisis intervention with incarcerated adults/patients with severe adjustment problems; and/or I have trained correctional staff/in-patient staff in confrontation avoidance. I have managed suicidal incarcerated adults/patients who had been referred by non-clinical staff; and/or I have used clinical skills to defuse an altercation between two incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have trained non-clinical staff on managing incarcerated adults/patients whose behavior was continuously disruptive. None of the above. 8 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist must have knowledge of research practices and a thorough knowledge of the available literature and its application to the management and treatment of behaviorally disordered offenders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for behaviorally disordered incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and implemented a treatment program based upon this review. I reviewed the literature in order to prepare a treatment protocol for incarcerated adults/patients engaging in self-harm behaviors; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a strategy to manage disruptive incarcerated adults/patients; and/or I have prepared a written literature review to assist treatment staff with program development issues. I have assisted with a study to investigate a particular problem behavior; and/or I have assisted with the development of a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment program for a particular behavioral disorder; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the treatment of a particular behavioral disorder and assisted with the implementation of a treatment program based upon this review. None of the above. 9 The Reintegration Housing Psychologist is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce.&nbsp; He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback to subordinates on long-term and short-term projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).