Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in or directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I have a combination of education and experience (as described above). I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting and managing background investigations for new hires in accordance with OPM regulations and organizational policy? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience entering and verifying data in background investigation systems based on provided documentation. I have experience initiating background investigations for new hires and ensuring all required information is submitted within established timelines. I have experience determining the adequacy and completeness of background investigations and advising HR specialists on the appropriate investigation level for positions. I have experience reviewing fingerprint submissions and coordinating with external agencies to resolve discrepancies. I have experience monitoring investigation workflows and updating reports related to investigation status and adjudication outcomes. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience adjudicating the results of pre-employment checks and suitability/fitness background investigations? Answer to this question is required I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings and made suitability/fitness determinations for public trust positions. I have made suitability/fitness determinations. I have made recommendations regarding suitability/fitness determinations to staff responsible for final adjudicative decisions. I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience requesting background investigations using OPM's e-QIP system along with performing adjudications for suitability, public trust, or security clearance determinations? Answer to this question is required I have conducted interviews to resolve or clarify discrepant information. I have requested Background Investigations using OPM’s Electronic Questionnaire Background Investigations Processing System. I have adjudicated Background Investigations for pre-employment, suitability, public trust, or security clearance determinations. None of the above. 5 Which of the following describes your experience working within an ID Management Program and/or Personnel Security Suitability program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working within an ID Office, capturing fingerprints and/or issuing badges. I have experience working within a Personnel Security Suitability Program, initiating, reviewing and submitting background investigation requests. I have experience managing the work of others within a Personnel Security Suitability or ID Management program and am familiar with all aspects of program requirements. I have experience conducting pre-employment background checks and/or making preliminary suitability determinations None of the above 6 Which of the following statements best describe your knowledge of policies, executive orders, practices, and standards pertaining to personnel security and suitability? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have knowledge of personnel security/suitability policies, executive orders, practices, and standards but have performed this task under close supervision. I have knowledge of personnel security/suitability policies, executive orders, practices, and standards and have performed this task as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have knowledge of personnel security/suitability policies, executive orders, practices, and standards and have performed this task as a regular part of my job and often consulted by others. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience applying federal and institutional policies and procedures related to security adjudications? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have applied Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and agency-specific guidelines when reviewing background investigation results for clearance eligibility. I have ensured adjudication decisions align with federal standards, such as the Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information. I have interpreted and applied government-wide security regulations, including Executive Orders and directives from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI). I have advised applicants on the implications of security policy violations during the adjudication process. None of the above 8 Which of the following best describes your experience supporting background investigation processing activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting with basic processing tasks such as preparing fingerprint packets and entering initial background investigation requests under close supervision. I have experience supporting standard processing activities such as submitting fingerprints, initiating background investigations, and handling reciprocity requests with moderate supervision. I have experience independently managing and supporting complex processing activities, including fingerprint submissions and reviews, reciprocity requests, and both initial and re-investigative background investigation requests. I have experience observing fingerprint collection procedures and shadowing staff during background investigation processing. I have experience compiling reports on investigation status and coordinating with internal teams to resolve processing delays. None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience providing clerical, administrative, fingerprinting, and ID credential services in support of a Personnel Security or Identity Management Program?&nbsp;(Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed fingerprinting services and issued ID credentials as part of a personnel security process. I have provided general clerical and administrative support to a Personnel Security or Identity Management Program. I have managed complex identity verification procedures and resolved credentialing issues independently. I have assisted with basic administrative tasks such as scheduling fingerprint appointments and maintaining ID records. I have developed policies and procedures for fingerprinting and credentialing operations. None of the above Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have an LL.M., related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I have a combination of education and experience (as described above). I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience reviewing background investigation reports, applying adjudicative standards, and making sound determinations for cases with substantial issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience receiving and analyzing completed background investigation reports from the investigative service provider. I have experience applying Office of Personnel Management (OPM) suitability adjudicative standards to assess investigative sufficiency. I have experience using expert judgment to make adjudicative conclusions for moderate to major cases involving substantial issues. I have experience documenting adjudicative decisions and communicating outcomes to relevant stakeholders. I have experience interpreting and applying adjudicative standards to complex cases. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience adjudicating the results of pre-employment checks and suitability/fitness background investigations? Answer to this question is required I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings and made suitability/fitness determinations for public trust positions. I have made suitability/fitness determinations. I have made recommendations regarding suitability/fitness determinations to staff responsible for final adjudicative decisions. I have adjudicated pre-employment background screenings. None of the above. 4 Answer to this question is required I have communicated with DCSA representatives to monitor the status of ongoing background investigations. I have stayed informed about changes in DCSA policies and procedures affecting personnel security. I have collaborated with DCSA to resolve complex adjudication issues and ensure alignment with national security standards. I have tracked developments in the field of personnel security through regular engagement with DCSA and other federal partners. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience applying OPM/DCSA guidelines and federal regulations in credentialing and personnel security processes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of OPM/DCSA guidelines and federal regulations related to credentialing and personnel security. I have extensive experience ensuring that required documents and forms are submitted, and that investigative checks and requests are initiated in compliance with credentialing and personnel security requirements. I am familiar with OPM/DCSA guidelines and federal regulations and have experience submitting required documents and initiating investigative checks with moderate supervision. I have experience performing credentialing and personnel security tasks under close supervision, including submitting documents and initiating investigative checks based on provided instructions. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience using federal personnel security data repositories and conducting personnel security interviews? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience using federal personnel security data repositories (e.g., NBIS, NP2 Portal, CVS, and e-QIP) to independently initiate and track investigations, determine reciprocity, and retrieve or update information. I have experience conducting in-depth personnel security interviews to resolve complex or sensitive derogatory information. I have experience using federal personnel security systems with moderate supervision to initiate investigations and address standard derogatory issues. I have experience assisting with personnel security interviews under close supervision, focusing on basic or routine cases. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience using institutional and federal systems to support the personnel security process? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience performing background checks using institutional and federal systems such as NBIS, CVS, or e-QIP. I have experience processing documents related to personnel security investigations and adjudications. I have experience recording and tracking the movement of security packages from receipt to final disposition. I have experience coordinating with external agencies to verify background check results and update system records. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.