Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and/or lead and develop a diverse workforce.** Led and developed a diverse workforce and in doing so, performed the following: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) evaluated work performance, 4) interviewed candidates, 5) heard and resolved employee informal complaints and referred other complaints to appropriate resource, 6) identified developmental/training needs, 7) communicated organizational policies to staff, 8) recommended awards for employees, 9) improved production quality, 10) monitored and reported on work in progress, and 11) reviewed completed work to ensure instructions related to work priorities, methods, deadlines and quality adhered to or met. Answer to this question is required Exercised a range of supervisory/team lead personnel management responsibilities including AT LEAST SEVEN (7) of the above, including 1) – 3). Exercised a range of supervisory/team lead personnel management responsibilities including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above, including 1) – 3). Exercised LIMITED supervisory/team lead personnel management responsibilities including: THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above, including 1) – 3). None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions.** Developed, planned, and evaluated strategies needed to coordinate and resolve organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Analyzed highly complex or unusual issues and operational problems in the organization, evaluated alternatives and disputed facts in arriving at sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, and ensured quality goals were met or exceeded and that policies and procedures were appropriately and consistently applied. Analyzed issues and operational problems in the organization, arriving at sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. Performed a key role in ensuring that quality goals were met and that policies and procedures were appropriately and consistently applied. Analyzed issues and operational problems in the organization, arriving at sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures, and practices.** Utilized copyright law, regulations, policies, procedures, and practices to advise on and apply provisions of the copyright law. Answer to this question is required Applied various provisions of copyright law. Received requests for copyright information and provided advice and assistance to the public on copyright requirements. Interpreted laws and trained others on copyright provisions. Worked with subject matter experts, the public and staff on copyright matters to resolve diverse, complex and sensitive requests; and interpreted and applied complex provisions of the law. Applied various provisions of copyright law. Received requests for copyright information and provided advice and assistance to the public on copyright requirements; provided peer training on copyright issues and/or worked as a rights and permission person for a publisher. Worked in an environment where copyright statutes and regulations were utilized; searched and prepared reports on copyright issues; and/or prepared copyright-related requests; and/or copyright submissions. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate and interact with others. Communicated and interacted with others to explain complex information and/or procedures clearly and concisely. Answer to this question is required Interacted and communicated with supervisors, subject matter experts, the public, and staff concerning copyright issues. Assigned and explained work requirements to supervisors and staff, served as a technical expert to answer diverse, sensitive and complex technical questions on copyright information and Copyright Office policies and handled and resolved complaints from the public. For example, presented copyright information to groups and individuals such as subject matter experts, staff and the public and explained policies, regulations and practices of the Copyright Office. Interacted and communicated with supervisors, subject matter experts, the public and staff concerning copyright issues. Provided and explained diverse, sensitive and/or complex information to groups and individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter and handled and resolved complaints from the public. For example, made presentation to a variety of groups concerning the work and operations of the Copyright Office. Interacted and communicated with supervisors, staff and the public concerning copyright issues. Provided and explained copyright information to groups and individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter and handled and resolved complaints from the public. For example, assisted lower graded specialists with complex or sensitive requests. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared formal and informal correspondence interpreting or explaining copyright procedures or issues clearly and concisely.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Conducted research and prepared written documents using extensive knowledge of copyright vocabulary and terminology to report copyright facts about works according to information in Copyright Office records. Reports related to diverse, sensitive and complex copyright matters which held up to intense scrutiny by wide internal and external audiences. Prepared analytical and technical detailed memoranda/reports that included thesis or persuasive writing aimed at proving theory, facilitating change and/or interpreting factual information to clearly and concisely present positions. Conducted research and prepared written documents on diverse, sensitive and complex copyright matters using knowledge of copyright vocabulary and terminology. Prepared analytical and technical detailed memoranda/reports that included thesis or persuasive writing aimed at proving theory, facilitating change, and interpreting factual information to clearly and concisely present a position. Written work has been disseminated to external and internal audiences. Conducted research and prepared written documents of moderate complexity related to evaluating copyright matters using knowledge of copyright vocabulary and terminology. Written work has been disseminated to external and internal audiences. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).