Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following customer experience activities have you independently executed? Answer to this question is required Human-centered design user research customer journey mapping process mapping analyzing operational customer data service blueprint None of the above 4 Indicate the types of performance metrics that you have personally developed: Answer to this question is required Customer service Call Center or Help Desk Speed of service performance Development Contract performance Budget tracking Due diligence compliance Earned value / Return on investment None of the above 5 Select the response that best describes level of experience in managing databases, generating reports and analyzing project data.. Answer to this question is required I have assisted in data input and report generation. I have created, populated and organized multiple databases used by groups of users. I have managed numerous databases, conducted extensive data analysis, prepared comprehensive reports, and from this established recommendations for consideration. None of the above 6 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience coordinating resources to achieve work objectives? Answer to this question is required I have developed and managed project requirements, priorities, schedules, and established deadlines. I have managed and prioritized project requirements to adhere to existing deadlines. I have managed multiple tasks to adhere to existing deadlines. I have assisted others who were responsible for managing multiple tasks to adhere to existing deadlines. None of the above. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your experience identifying program requirements and deficiencies and making appropriate changes to operations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have identified program requirements and deficiencies to be addressed by others. I have implemented program changes based on requirements and deficiencies identified by others. I have identified program requirements and deficiencies and made appropriate changes. I have managed others who have identified program requirements and deficiencies and made appropriate changes. 8 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 9 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 10 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Briefings Conferences Interviews Meetings One on One discussions Technical assistance Telephone inquiries Town hall meetings Training Work groups None of the above 11 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence E-mails Research papers Technical reports Standard operating procedures (SOPs) Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) Statement of Work (SOW) Contract Solicitations Policy Guidance Budget Justification Congressional Correspondence Novation Agreements Trends and Market Analysis Cost Analysis Procurement Analysis None of the above 12 Do you have experience in contract oversight? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Prepare contract modifications and amendments. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have normally been consulted by others for expertise and assistance or have trained others in performing this task. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience recommending actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 15 Establish and monitor performance measures to assess the effectiveness, efficiency, and progress of a program in meeting its plans, goals, and objectives. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Analysis and problem solving skills are important in investigative and compliance activities. Which of the following most accurately describes the level of skill at which you have most consistently performed? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and understanding of analysis and problem solving techniques and methods, but have not applied them on the job. I have analyzed quantitative data, written documents, case files, records or other sources to identify, extract, or associate information. I have analyzed quantitative data, written documents, case files, records or other sources to assimilate, consolidate, construct, create, design, identify trends, make predictions, or reconcile divergent pieces of information. I have analyzed quantitative data, written documents, case files, records or other sources to judge, select, decide, justify, build a case for, assess, rate, or evaluate objects or pieces of information. None of the above. 17 Select the work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Observes worker performance. Establishes guidelines and performance expectations for staff. Evaluates worker performance. Recommends personnel actions as necessary. Effects disciplinary actions as appropriate. Critiques worker performance. Develops work improvement plans. Provides performance feedback. Schedules and assigns the work of others. Schedules and coordinates service requirements and facilities. None of the above. 18 In which of the following areas do you have experience analyzing, interpreting, and applying Federal laws, rules, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.