Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience planning, organizing, coordinating and controlling large exhibit projects? Answer to this question is required I have scheduled and budgeted for large exhibit projects (more than $5,000,000) and have developed exhibit, fabrication, and installation schedules. I have scheduled and budgeted for exhibit projects and have coordinated with multiple staff and contractors on exhibit projects. I have shepherded exhibit projects through approval and revision processes. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience related to the development of museum programs, exhibitions, and related media? Answer to this question is required I have served as the project lead for the development of a large scale, multi-year museum exhibition, public program, or museum project. I have served as the project team member for the development of a large scale, multi-year museum exhibition, public program or museum project. I have completed formal training in the area of the exhibition design and development and have contributed to the development of an exhibition or museum program. I have completed formal training related to exhibition design and development but have not yet performed this task on the job I have no training or experience in this area. 4 Which of the following activities related to museum exhibition management have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have served as a project manager in a museum setting tasked with overseeing the development and installation of a museum exhibition. I have served on a project team in a museum setting tasked with developing/installing a museum exhibition. I have reviewed exhibition design and build proposals for technical accuracy. I have served as a COTR on exhibition contracts. I have prepared statements of work and formal requests for proposals (RFPs) in support of exhibition contracts. I have created purchase orders in support of the development and installation of a museum exhibition. I have regularly worked with exhibition and collection staff as a member of a project team. None of the above. 5 Which of the following most accurately reflects your highest level of experience that demonstrates your potential to lead a team or participate in the management of an organization? Answer to this question is required I have served as a project leader, established and communicated project objectives, assigned work to others, monitored the progress of the assignments, provided regular reports on progress to my managers, provided guidance and instruction as needed to members of the group, evaluated and/or rewarded the contributions of the individual team members, and assured that the project objectives were successfully met. I have held a lead/senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instructions on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization. I have held a position or positions with supervisory responsibilities for administrative, technical, and trade workers which included developing goals, milestones, and work plans; balancing and distributing employees' workload, evaluating job performance, mediating or negotiating resolutions to employee problems and conflicts, recommending employees for recognition, promotion, and developmental training; and recommending or hiring new employees. I have not held a senior, lead, or supervisory position. I independently perform the duties and responsibilities of my position, determine the course of action to take, plan and carry out my assignments, consult with others as necessary, and resolve any conflicts. I keep my supervisor advised of progress, any controversial conflicts or issues, and/or matters that may affect policy or have far-reaching implications. I have not held a senior, lead, or supervisory position. I perform the duties and responsibilities of my position with general directions for common assignments but require more specific direction and guidance from higher level specialists or supervisors for more complex or politically sensitive assignments. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participate with managers in planning the work of the organization to achieve success? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participating with managers in planning the work of the organization. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participating with managers in planning the work of the organization, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas; participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describe your experience in policy development and implementation? Answer to this question is required I have experience working with multiple bureaus and Smithsonian offices in developing and implementing new Smithsonian policies. I have worked within a bureau to develop and implement new policies. I have worked with my supervisor on creating new policies. I do not have experience in implementing new policies. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and in participating with managers in planning the work of the organization to achieve success Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and in participating with managers in planning the work of the organization. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and participated with managers in planning the work of the organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and participating with managers in planning the work of the organization, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience building a culture that promotes teamwork, acceptance and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in promoting teamwork, acceptance and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in promoting teamwork, acceptance and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences. I have promoted teamwork, acceptance and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have promoted teamwork, acceptance and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have promoted teamwork, acceptance and productivity among persons exhibiting cultural, ethnic, gender, and other individual differences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience using interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in demonstrating interpersonal skills, resolving problems, coaching and mentoring. I have demonstrated interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have demonstrated interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in demonstrating interpersonal skills, resolving problems, coaching and mentoring, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have demonstrated interpersonal skills characteristic of an effective leader such as communicating vision, listening to employees' issues and concerns, being proactive and innovative in resolving problems, coaching and mentoring and having a positive attitude, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes a smooth flow and even distribution to ensure staff is effectively utilized to meet organizational and customer needs? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff who performed these tasks or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing these tasks because of my expertise. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but these are not a regular part of my job. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 13 Which of the following activities have you had responsibility for while supervising subordinates? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Interviewing and making recommendations for selection Promotions Employee recognition Training and development of staff Performance Leave Discipline Grievances None of the above 14 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, training and experience in leadership concepts and principles? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, or management but have not yet performed this task on the job I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled operators on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and have led a workforce of highly skilled operators as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I do not have knowledge, training, or experience in leadership concepts and principles. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in leading a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in leading a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels. I have had education or training in leading a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have led a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have led a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have led a large, complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following statement best describes your supervisory and leadership levels of experience? Answer to this question is required I have 5+ years of leading multi-disciplined teams and leaders, setting strategic goals, clarifying desired outcomes, developing employees, leveraging motivation and strengths, and demonstrating successful program development and execution. I have 5+ years of supervisory experience in a specific field as a first-level supervisor developing performance metrics, performing performance evaluations, participating in recruiting/hiring and executing personnel actions, and demonstrating program success in leading subordinate employees. I have 5 years or less of supervisory experience but have executed the full realm of supervisory responsibilities over subordinate employees. I have served successfully as a team lead. I have no supervisory experience. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience in evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have had education or training in evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have evaluated budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels. I have evaluated budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 18 Which of the following best describes your experience in monitoring and controlling maintenance funds, estimate material and funding requirements, and evaluate resource allocations? Answer to this question is required I have monitored and controlled maintenance funds, estimated material and funding requirements, and evaluated resource allocations on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have monitored and controlled maintenance funds, estimated material and funding requirements, and evaluated resource allocations as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in monitoring and controlling maintenance funds, estimating material and funding requirements, and evaluating resource allocations. I have had education or training in monitoring and controlling maintenance funds, estimating material and funding requirements, and evaluating resource allocations, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have monitored and controlled maintenance funds, estimated material and funding requirements, and evaluated resource allocations as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 19 Which of the following activities have you performed to project and monitor expenses in your organization? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have estimated costs for individual projects based on historic data. I have estimated costs for individual projects based on vendor information. I have participated in the preparation of budget estimates for an office or department. I have compiled estimates and prepared budget requests for a department or large scale, multi-component or multi-year project. I have monitored expenditures for an individual project. I have monitored expenditures for a department or multi-part/multi-line project. I have prepared budget estimates with contingency plans for different levels of funding. I have resolved cost overruns through adjustments within a project or budget transfers between projects. I have tracked finances in a procurement area with volatile pricing. I have supplemented organizational resources through partnerships, in-kind gifts or fundraising. I have developed and implemented internal control policies and procedures. I have analyzed and negotiated proposals from a financial perspective. I have received education or training on financial/budget policies, procedures and techniques, but have not performed it on the job. I have not performed any of the above functions. 20 Which of the following best describes your experience applying principles and techniques of program and budget analysis in the evaluation of programs or projects associated with museum exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs or projects associated with museum exhibitions under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs or projects associated with museum exhibitions. I have had education or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs and projects associated with museum exhibitions, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs or projects associated with museum exhibitions as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs and projects associated with museum exhibitions as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 21 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience or training in communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience participating in and representing an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences? Answer to this question is required I have participated in and represented an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in participating in and representing my organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have participated in and represented an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have participated in and represented an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in participating in and representing an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have represented an organization at briefings, meetings or conferences which included CEOs, Senior Level managers, State executive/legislative members or Members of Congress. I have also trained others in this task or have been consulted as an expert for this task. 23 Which of the following best describes your experience in maintaining positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in maintaining positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in maintaining positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures. I have maintained positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have maintained positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have maintained positive customer relations by meeting service expectations and goals through use of customer service standards and performance measures as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.