Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. Applicants must address the following mandatory qualifications&nbsp;separate from their resumes. Statements must provide specific examples that address relevant experience, accomplishments and evidence that you possess demonstrated superior technical qualifications.&nbsp; You will not be considered for this position if you fail to submit qualification statements specifically addressing each mandatory technical qualification requirement. Describe your experience performing and directing warehouse and related functions: receiving; storage and distribution; property; transportation; printing and duplication; supply; mail; records; telecommunications; travel; travel card; building services. Did you design policies and directives for these functions? &nbsp; What kinds of specialized knowledge did you acquire? Describe your experience with managing an annual budget of $10m or more.&nbsp;What were the sources of the funds?&nbsp; Were there multiple funding streams with multiple restrictions?&nbsp; Describe controls for funds and deadlines for obligations.&nbsp; What software did you use to manage funds and budget?&nbsp; Describe your ability to (a) lead and (b) perform data analysis for a specified topic. &nbsp; Take into account your experience with data recording, reporting, collection, and processing functions; and data outputs and analyses that deliver necessary information to support program planning and management. &nbsp; Note the software applications you have used to carry out and present your analyses, and the ways you have presented it &ndash; both in person and virtually.&nbsp; Describe your skill in setting short- and long-term goals for yourself and others. How have you ensured that the activities of a team are well-integrated with those of other teams? How have you planned a year or more ahead of time, and then delivered on that plan? Address the way and frequency with which you have collaborated with others to achieve something bigger than one person can achieve. Elaborate on methods and outcomes related to generating new ideas for opportunities and initiatives to advance an employer's goals. Has professional development and education factored into the way you lead others &ndash; how do you keep up to date on the latest information in your field? Describe the way you supervise and mentor others, including the full range of hiring, supervising and terminating as circumstances warrant. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.