Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department of Education Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 - Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal government. I do not meet this requirement. 2 All grades -Choose the one answer that best describes you. Answer to this question is required I am under the age of 37 prior to the opening date of this announcement. I am currently in or have previously held a criminal investigator type position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 3 Questions, interviews, and confers with others to obtain and verify information. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Determines a method to perform work, identifies specific steps, and prepares a schedule for under taking the work. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Interviews suspects and witnesses Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Please select all of the following types of violations, in which you have been the lead agent on the investigation: Answer to this question is required Student Financial Aid Fraud Grant Fraud False Statements Computer Crime Contract Fraud Ethics Violations Employee administrative violations None of the above 7 Please select all of the following you have personal experience with: Answer to this question is required Issuing an IG subpoena Freedom of Information Act Request, Regulations, and Responses Conducting a formal Quality Assurance Review or Peer Review in an OIG Preparing an indexed and referenced written product according to audit standards None of the above 8 Select the experience you have obtained conducting complex investigations involving program fraud and corruption. Answer to this question is required Participated as part of an investigative team. Served as the lead investigator responsible for the planning and execution of an investigation. Supervised and conducted oversight of investigators conducting such investigations. None of the above. 9 Plans and conducts criminal investigations involving conflicting evidence; difficult, complex issues, and/or sensitive issues; or multiple investigative matters. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Select the task(s) you have performed to develop an investigation. Answer to this question is required Analyzed information to identify possible waste, fraud or abuse Developed leads Conducted investigative interviews Coordinated an investigation with law enforcement personnel from other organizations None of the above 11 Select the investigative task(s) you have performed independently in support of criminal and civil investigations. Answer to this question is required Developed information sources/leads Evaluated allegations of criminal or civil wrongdoing Developed investigative work plans Conducted investigative interviews Completed affidavits for arrest or search warrants Issued subpoenas or court orders Participated on an investigative team None of the above 12 Completes assignments under tight deadlines requiring accurate, timely and sound products and decisions. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Negotiates with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, or a solution. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Clearly articulates findings or recommendations, both orally and in writing, in order to support a position. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Select the recurring contact(s) you have experience maintaining in order to negotiate an investigative plan. Answer to this question is required Investigation team members Supervisors Program staff Federal representatives from outside your agency Representatives from other public or private entities None of the above 16 Examines Records. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Please select all of the following computer-based applications you have measured, demonstrated experience in: Answer to this question is required Using Excel importing, sorting, and filtering features Using Excel pivot tables Building queries in Microsoft Access Building queries in SQL Creating reports using Crystal Reports or similar database reporting products None of the above 18 Persuades others to accept findings, recommendations or alternative viewpoints. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 19 Do you have experience analyzing facts and/or figures during the course of an investigation, including the nature of the investigation and any complicating factors involved? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Please select the various types of communication with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Writing investigative reports for prosecutors Giving oral case presentations to prosecutors Trial or grand jury testimony Writing affidavits for search or arrest warrants Information or decision paper for senior leadership (e.g., to political appointees or Senior Executive Service) Formal oral presentation to senior leadership Training to a small group of individuals Formal presentation to a large (>50) group of individuals Documenting workflows Writing official policy documents None of the above 21 Works closely with individuals and groups to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and make improvements. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 22 Select the types of document(s) you have written as a regular part of your experience. Answer to this question is required Investigation plans Memoranda of Interview Investigative findings Supporting documents for affidavits or subpoenas Final investigative reports None of the above 23 Prepares and writes investigative reports and correspondence in a clear, logical, concise and factual format. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Notices FOIA Privacy Accessibility Security Information Quality Inspector General Whitehouse.gov USA.gov Benefits.gov Regulations.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).