Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Sector Administrator must be able to communicate effectively with all types of people within the agency.&nbsp; He/she must also communicate with people and organizations outside of the agency which have a professional interest in correctional work, including representatives of the U.S. Court Systems, the U.S. Attorney&rsquo;s Office, the U.S. Marshals Service, the media, and the general public.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given briefings to upper management on sensitive issues; and/or I have represented the bureau at professional workshops and conferences pertaining to current and proposed Residential Reentry Management Branch activities; and/or I have, as a chairperson, guided a workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have, as a committee member, given a presentation and responded to questions; and/or I have given presentations at colleges or universities, community relations board meetings or other related community meetings; and/or I have successfully resolved complex conflicts among supervisors, co-workers and/or peers; and/or I have provided technical assistance in the interpretation and coordination of community-based correctional activities. I have participated on a Community Relations Board; and/or I have presented information during Annual Training; and/or I have briefed executive staff on inmate case information; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff to develop and modify institutional programs. I have counseled an employee on performance issues; and/or I have provided guidance to subordinates on processing work; and/or I have briefed management on Residential Reentry Management Branch issues; and/or I have participated in a conference involving new procedures; and/or I have made routine presentations during Warden’s staff meetings. None of the above. 5 The Sector Administrator prepares correspondence in response to public, congressional and intra-governmental concerns.&nbsp; He/she prepares analytical reports assessing the impact and success of community-based correctional activities.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed and edited newsletter articles, routine reports, correspondence and memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have written memorandums for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared the report for an operational/program review or audit. I have composed policy that was adopted for use by the agency or institution; and/or I have drafted budget estimates and justifications; and/or I have developed national policy for the Residential Reentry Management Branch; and/or I have composed correspondence for Executive Staff; and/or I have prepared documentation to use in an administrative court hearing; and/or I have written an article which was published in a technical publication, journal, newsletter, etc.; and/or I have prepared detailed correspondence to others regarding critical needs or concerns; and/or I have initiated reports and/or adverse action to direct contractors to correct deficient operations. I have responded to Congressional inquiries regarding constituent concerns; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from executive staff within the bureau or comparable management level in the private sector; and/or I have participated in group preparation of a report by writing part of the report and reviewing and editing other team members’ submissions; and/or I have prepared psychological reports. None of the above. 6 The Sector Administrator participates in the development of and interpretation of national policy for the Residential Reentry Management Branch.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a task force charged with gathering, evaluating and reporting on a major issue; and/or I have served as a participant of an institution accreditation committee; and/or I have participated on a correctional administration task force. I have developed a Program Statement related to the Residential Reentry Management Branch; and/or I have developed a specialized Statement of Work for inclusion in a contract solicitation; and/or I have served as a reviewer-in-charge during an operational or program review or monitoring of a contract facility; and/or I have headed a task force or team charged with gathering, evaluating and reporting on a major issue. I have monitored trends, issues, and statistics related to community corrections; and/or I have responded to administrative appeals regarding policy issues; and/or I have conducted draft compliance reviews. None of the above. 7 The Sector Administrator must have extensive and specialized knowledge regarding the Residential Reentry Management Branch policies, procedures and practices in effect throughout the Bureau of Prisons (BOP).&nbsp; He/she must be able to effectively review and evaluate administrative procedures for compliance with BOP rules, regulations, and policies relating to organization, management control, and utilization of the Residential Reentry Management Branch.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have attended a budget and/or staffing meeting; and/or I have implemented a new program to ensure policy compliance; and/or I have conducted training for bureau staff on a new procedure involving the Residential Reentry Management Branch; and/or I have written employee logs, or progress reviews, or performance work plans. I have served on committees to formulate policies; and/or I have participated on management assessments; and/or I have participated in streamlining initiatives; and/or I have provided guidance to Federal agencies regarding proposed regulations; and/or I have certified as a Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) for the bureau’s Residential Reentry Management Branch contracts. I have entered and retrieved information from Sentry regarding Residential Reentry Management Branch issues; and/or I have conducted individual or group counseling of inmates; and/or I have developed institution supplements; and/or I have provided training to contracting staff; and/or I have participated in regional conferences and staff assistance visits. None of the above. 8 The Sector Administrator is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce.&nbsp; He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring program; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and/or increased morale. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).