Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Do you have at least one year of experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-09 level in the Federal service, using the Mail Chimp application to set up campaigns and automations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your professional background. If multiple statements accurately describe your background, choose the one closest to the top of the list that is still accurate. Answer to this question is required I have completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have completed three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. None of these statements accurately describes my background. 3 Have you been responsible for designing email content for fundraising with a goal of $1M or more? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience managing an email list needing daily updates, with at least 1,000 recipients? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you created social media content on behalf of a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you worked in a role where museum-based publishing was a primary function? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Publications developed under my supervision have received awards for their content, design or production. Answer to this question is required True False 8 Select the subjects below that are familiar to you through direct experience. Your answers must be supported by academic transcripts or resume. Answer to this question is required Editing of scholarly art publications Editing of trade art publications Transitioning from print to digital production Editing for the web and digital platforms Editing of e-books The future of art books Digital workflows in the publishing process Preparation of catalogues raisonnes The editor/author relationship Managing a publishing team The digital humanities Measuring the impact of technology on scholarship and research Social networking tools for scholars and researchers Social networking tools in humanities research None of these 9 I have been responsible for editing more than one project at once without sacrificing editorial accuracy or delaying schedules. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you designed email advertisements for at least five separate exhibitions at an art museum? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 I have used Google Analytics to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of Web page production and delivery processes. Answer to this question is required True False 12 On which of the following public-facing digital channels have you reported quantitative and qualitative key performance indicators (KPIs)? Answer to this question is required Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn TikTok Youtube Mobile Apps Podcasts Other channels not mentioned here None of these 13 Indicate the audiences to which you have successfully presented complex analytical information. &nbsp;Be prepared to discuss your answer(s) if invited to interview. Answer to this question is required Executives Blue collar workers White collar workers Academic professionals Community groups Other kinds of people not listed here None of these audiences 14 Complete the sentence accurately. I have experience _________ email based analytical reports. Answer to this question is required documenting for management reporting to management presenting to management I have other experience related to these activities. My experience is not accurately described here. 15 Do you have experience analyzing and synthesizing data on consumer behavior? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Do you have experience designing interactive visitor interfaces for a site belonging to a museum or other cultural institution environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you used a customer relationship management (CRM) application like SalesForce as your data hub and connected tools like Mail Chimp to personalize e-mail communications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Choose those items accurately describing products you have edited. Answer to this question is required Scholarly art book Art/architecture book for a general audience e-Book Online exhibition catalog Catalogue raisonne Exhibition catalog Scholarly article Children's book Reference book Multiauthored book Book jacket copy Art/architecture brochure Digital application (non-books) Audio and video podcast e-Newsletter (museum or educational) Website (museum or educational) Press release Special events invitation (museum or educational) Donor development pamphlet Map and Visitors Guide (museum or educational) Wall text for an exhibition Art labels for an exhibition None of these Grade: 12 1 Do you have at least one year of experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-11 level in the Federal service, using the List Acquisition and Mail Campaigns functions in Mail Chimp to communicate with constituents AND assuring communications compliance with federal law? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you been responsible for designing email content for fundraising with a goal of $1M or more? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience managing an email list needing daily updates, with at least 1,000 recipients? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you created social media content on behalf of a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you worked in a role where museum-based publishing was a primary function? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Publications developed under my supervision have received awards for their content, design or production. Answer to this question is required True False 7 Select the subjects below that are familiar to you through direct experience. Your answers must be supported by academic transcripts or resume. Answer to this question is required Editing of scholarly art publications Editing of trade art publications Transitioning from print to digital production Editing for the web and digital platforms Editing of e-books The future of art books Digital workflows in the publishing process Preparation of catalogues raisonnes The editor/author relationship Managing a publishing team The digital humanities Measuring the impact of technology on scholarship and research Social networking tools for scholars and researchers Social networking tools in humanities research None of these 8 I have been responsible for editing more than one project at once without sacrificing editorial accuracy or delaying schedules. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you designed email advertisements for at least five separate exhibitions at an art museum? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I have used Google Analytics to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of Web page production and delivery processes. Answer to this question is required True False 11 On which of the following public-facing digital channels have you reported quantitative and qualitative key performance indicators (KPIs)? Answer to this question is required Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn TikTok Youtube Mobile Apps Podcasts Other channels not mentioned here None of these 12 Indicate the audiences to which you have successfully presented complex analytical information. &nbsp;Be prepared to discuss your answer(s) if invited to interview. Answer to this question is required Executives Blue collar workers White collar workers Academic professionals Community groups Other kinds of people not listed here None of these audiences 13 Complete the sentence accurately. I have experience _________ email based analytical reports. Answer to this question is required documenting for management reporting to management presenting to management I have other experience related to these activities. My experience is not accurately described here. 14 Do you have experience analyzing and synthesizing data on consumer behavior? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Do you have experience designing interactive visitor interfaces for a site belonging to a museum or other cultural institution environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Have you used a customer relationship management (CRM) application like SalesForce as your data hub and connected tools like Mail Chimp to personalize e-mail communications? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.