Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Applicants must have one-year specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the next lower grade level. (For positions at GS-4 and above): experience that involved the observation of and assistance in the application of techniques relating to behavior, capacities, traits, interests, and activities of either humans or, under laboratory conditions, animals. Experience may have been gained in connection with a program of research or direct services in psychology that gave a practical understanding of some of the principles, methods, and techniques of psychology needed to assist professional psychologists. OR B. Education: Nine semester hours or 13.5 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Psychology Technician must interact with inmates and staff at all levels throughout the institution, as well as individuals outside the institution.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for supervising the department's work cadre daily.&nbsp; He/she screens telephone calls and handles routine inquiries from both staff and inmates, providing technical assistance and answering questions regarding the general nature of correctional programs.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded independently to verbal requests for information; and/or I have reduced the necessity of contact with staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on technical issues; and/or I have presented pertinent information to staff members/co-workers during meetings or institution recalls. I have responded to inquiries on general issues regarding departmental issues; and/or I have provided information to other staff or inmates regarding policies or procedures (i.e., safety talks, orientation to new inmates); and/or I have requested medical/central/psychological files from the appropriate party/source. I have assisted in providing basic office procedure training to other employees; and/or I have provided work status to supervisor; and/or I have member of a public speaking group; and/or I have provided directions to visitors of the institution/organization; and/or I have presented information on upcoming events to a group of co-workers; and/or I have briefed supervisor of workload issues/concerns on a recurring basis. None of the above. 3 The Psychology Technician must have a practical knowledge of psychological principles and methods within the Psychology Department to complete assignments involving the administration, scoring and distribution of various psychological tests.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, under direct supervision, researched and comprehended guidelines; and/or I have recommended actions based on analysis of data from technical reports; and/or I have prepared perpetual audits. I have reviewed emergency/contingency plans as required by policy; and/or I have updated an established checklist to maintain policy compliance; and/or I have requested clarification on new policies/procedures being implemented in a work area. I have, under limited supervision, read and interpreted regulations and technical materials; and/or I have translated guidelines into specific actions; and/or I have implemented a streamlined procedure which complied with governing regulations/policy. None of the above. 4 The Psychology Technician is responsible for implementing the automated psychology data entry system, including initial implementation of Psychology Data System (PDS) training of all psychology staff, routine data entry and retrieval, automated test scoring and reconciling discrepancies in the files.&nbsp; He/she uploads data to the national database in Central Office and imports/exports zip files on incoming/outgoing inmates. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized the spell/grammar check functions to correct errors on documents; and/or I have assisted in setting up an automated filing system for easy access and retrieval of information; and/or I have ordered office supplies for a variety of common office equipment. I have maintained rosters of employees; and/or I have kept track of the badges distributed in the institution; and/or I have typed information into the database containing assault/death information; and/or I have run Sentry rosters. I have created a database to store employees' training records; and/or I have run National Crime Information Center (NCIC) background checks; and/or I have assisted in creating a slide presentation using a presentations/graphics software. None of the above. 5 The Psychology Technician coordinates the workflow of the office by assuring day-to-day operations are performed in a timely manner.&nbsp; He/she devises new procedures and methods which enhance the overall operation of the department.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have anticipated needs and pre-ordered supplies ahead of schedule; and/or I have submitted work orders; and/or I have screened telephone calls and visitors; and/or I have forwarded mail; and/or I have run inmate rosters. I have maintained an accurate calendar of upcoming meetings; and/or I have scheduled appointments; and/or I have entered callouts for group and individual psychotherapy sessions; and/or I have maintained time and attendance records; and/or I have made hotel arrangements for several conference attendees; and/or I have arranged rental and use of facilities in the community for large meetings; and/or I have scheduled staff for training. I have maintained adequate level of supplies for office; and/or I have ordered furniture and coordinated delivery dates, including the return of any damaged products; and/or I have determined where mail should be forwarded when not addressed to a particular individual; and/or I have maintained manual filing system by filing material/information in a timely manner. None of the above. 6 The Psychology Technician compiles, manages and ensures the security of all psychology files.&nbsp; He/she assists in the establishment of a systematic and resourceful report filing system for all Drug Abuse Program offerings.&nbsp; He/she assists in the coordination and collection of Drug Abuse Program monthly&nbsp;statistical activity reports, and other quarterly and annual reports.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained records on an automated database; and/or I have established alphabetical and/or numerical filing system; and/or I have retrieved files upon request. I have maintained a log of Medical Duty Status (MDS) monthly contacts; and/or I have maintained monthly psychotropic compliance and suicide watch monitoring files; and/or I have maintained monthly reports; and/or I have maintained all other log books within the department. I have maintained inventory of office equipment and supplies; and/or I have established subject matter files; and/or I have cataloged and filed legal reference information; and/or I have maintained records of class and program attendance. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Applicants must have one-year specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the next lower grade level. (For positions at GS-4 and above): experience that involved the observation of and assistance in the application of techniques relating to behavior, capacities, traits, interests, and activities of either humans or, under laboratory conditions, animals. Experience may have been gained in connection with a program of research or direct services in psychology that gave a practical understanding of some of the principles, methods, and techniques of psychology needed to assist professional psychologists. OR B. Education: One year of graduate education or 27 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Psychology Technician must interact with inmates and staff at all levels throughout the institution, as well as individuals outside the institution.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for supervising the department's work cadre daily.&nbsp; He/she screens telephone calls and handles routine inquiries from both staff and inmates, providing technical assistance and answering questions regarding the general nature of correctional programs.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have responded independently to verbal requests for information; and/or I have reduced the necessity of contact with staff members by providing assistance to callers or visitors on technical issues; and/or I have presented pertinent information to staff members/co-workers during meetings or institution recalls. I have responded to inquiries on general issues regarding departmental issues; and/or I have provided information to other staff or inmates regarding policies or procedures (i.e., safety talks, orientation to new inmates); and/or I have requested medical/central/psychological files from the appropriate party/source. I have referred an inmate/client to seek psychological help; and/or I have defused a situation regarding an angry or disturbed inmate/client; and/or I have researched and responded independently to requests for information from internal and external sources; and/or I have answered technical questions from management officials. None of the above. 3 The Psychology Technician must have a practical knowledge of psychological principles and methods within the Psychology Department to complete assignments involving the administration, scoring and distribution of various psychological tests.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, under direct supervision, researched and comprehended guidelines; and/or I have recommended actions based on analysis of data from technical reports; and/or I have prepared perpetual audits. I have exercised independent judgement when making office decisions; and/or I have referenced established guidelines to complete work assignments; and/or I have scored recurring psychological tests to assist supervisor. I have, under limited supervision, read and interpreted regulations and technical materials; and/or I have translated guidelines into specific actions; and/or I have implemented a streamlined procedure which complied with governing regulations/policy. None of the above. 4 The Psychology Technician is responsible for implementing the automated psychology data entry system, including initial implementation of Psychology Data System (PDS) training of all psychology staff, routine data entry and retrieval, automated test scoring and reconciling discrepancies in the files.&nbsp; He/she uploads data to the national database in Central Office and imports/exports zip files on incoming/outgoing inmates. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed a budget analysis and wrote recommendations using Word; and/or I have created a macro on Word; and/or I have created a pie chart on Harvard Graphics; and/or I have used Management Analysis Portal (MAP); and/or I have utilized the Psychology Data System (PDS); and/or I have created a spreadsheet using Excel, Access, or similar software. I have maintained rosters of employees; and/or I have kept track of the badges distributed in the institution; and/or I have typed information into the database containing assault/death information; and/or I have run Sentry rosters. I have created a database to store employees' training records; and/or I have run National Crime Information Center (NCIC) background checks; and/or I have assisted in creating a slide presentation using a presentations/graphics software. None of the above. 5 The Psychology Technician coordinates the workflow of the office by assuring day-to-day operations are performed in a timely manner.&nbsp; He/she devises new procedures and methods which enhance the overall operation of the department.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have anticipated needs and pre-ordered supplies ahead of schedule; and/or I have submitted work orders; and/or I have screened telephone calls and visitors; and/or I have forwarded mail; and/or I have run inmate rosters. I have maintained an accurate calendar of upcoming meetings; and/or I have scheduled appointments; and/or I have entered callouts for group and individual psychotherapy sessions; and/or I have maintained time and attendance records; and/or I have made hotel arrangements for several conference attendees; and/or I have arranged rental and use of facilities in the community for large meetings; and/or I have scheduled staff for training. I have simultaneously notified staff of meetings and responsibilities; and/or I have established deadlines and priorities; and/or I have followed up on matters to ensure they were completed; and/or I have developed manual or computerized logs to track workflow. None of the above. 6 The Psychology Technician compiles, manages and ensures the security of all psychology files.&nbsp; He/she assists in the establishment of a systematic and resourceful report filing system for all Drug Abuse Program offerings.&nbsp; He/she assists in the coordination and collection of Drug Abuse Program monthly&nbsp;statistical activity reports, and other quarterly and annual reports.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained records on an automated database; and/or I have established alphabetical and/or numerical filing system; and/or I have retrieved files upon request. I have created a program to track workflow and assignment deadlines; and/or I have developed a manual record system to facilitate the archiving and retrieval of inmate information; and/or I have organized and reviewed psychological files for appropriate documentation and reconciling discrepancies; and/or I have forwarded and/or acknowledged receipt of psychological files. I have maintained inventory of office equipment and supplies; and/or I have established subject matter files; and/or I have cataloged and filed legal reference information; and/or I have maintained records of class and program attendance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).