Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience (positions at GS-4 and above): Positions in this series range widely in type and include support duties to medical or health personnel such as audiologists, speech pathologists, medical officers, and optometrists. Therefore, technician experience is experience that required application of the knowledge, methods, and techniques of the position to be filled. OR B. Education and Training: Nine semester hours or 13.5 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant is required to have completed one or more of the following certified programs: nursing assistant, medical assistant, pharmacy technician, vocational/practical nursing, or emergency medical technician (EMT). Evidence of program completion is required. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST upload evidence of program completion, at the time of application, and clearly address requirements in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position AND I have uploaded the required documentation. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position and understand I will be found ineligible for the position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit evidence of meeting the selective factor. This documentation MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Medication Technician must be familiar with a variety of medical equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taken automated vital signs; and/or I have performed blood sugar checks; and/or I have used automated medication storage systems to retrieve medications for administration; and/or I have used prescription filling robotics to prepare medications for dispensing. I have utilized electronic medical records for recording patient information; and/or I have utilized automated office system for scheduling purposes; and/or I have managed advanced healthcare technology such as holter monitors, insulin pumps, or telehealth carts; and/or I have managed automated medication dispensing cabinets operations to include refilling and maintenance; and/or I have managed prescription filling robotic equipment to include refilling and maintenance. I have maintained and accounted for medical equipment and supplies; and/or I have requisitioned for medical and office supplies, as needed; and/or I have coordinated patient appointments and schedules. None of the above. 4 The Medication Technician must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with adults in custody, other health care providers, and employees within the facility. He/she must be able to deal with all of these individuals in order to provide the best patient care possible. The Medication Technician must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with adults in custody, other health care providers, and employees within the facility. He/she must be able to deal with all of these individuals in order to provide the best patient care possible. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have instructed patients in activities of daily living; and/or I have communicated questions regarding patient care to the appropriate medical provider for clarification; and/or I have instructed family members in how to best assist with patients care and activities; and/or I have conveyed basic non-technical written information in logs/reports/memos. I have provided accurate reports of patient condition or changes in conditions to nursing staff or other health care providers; and/or I have accurately related patient questions to the appropriate healthcare provider; and/or I have reinforced patient teaching/instruction. I have performed in-service programs and provided on-the-job training for other medical nursing assistant/inmate workers; and/or I have provided clear, concise written and oral reports concerning pertinent patient information; and/or I have served as preceptor or resource person to new staff and others. None of the above. 5 The Medication Technician must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patients' physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have described situations which must be reported such as confusion, unsteady gait and changes in eating habits; and/or I have noted changes in vital signs and reported abnormal values; and/or I have recognized medical emergency (choking, difficulty breathing, falls, bleeding). I have recognized and reported a physical or psychological change in a patient’s condition requiring further assessment; and/or I have documented technical information in patient medical record; and/or I have notified supervisor of suspected drug reaction such as lethargy, rash, cough. I have worked in a healthcare or correctional facility that cares for patients with neurological and/or severe mental health disorders such as dementia, Alzheimer’s, or schizophrenia; and/or I have recognized and reported to superiors any behaviors/actions which might indicate a threat to security or the safety of others; and/or I have worked in situations of verbal abuse, combative behavior, assaults, or other forms of aggression. None of the above. 6 The Medication Technician has experience in safety and infection control policies and procedures which are required for work in any health care environment including correctional facilities. Often medication may have to be administered in various types of isolation and for inmates with infectious diseases. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have noted and reported medication errors; and/or I have followed/practiced standard precautions; and/or I have followed policies regarding bio-spills and exposures; and/or I have operated sterilizer equipment. I am developed awareness of principles of universal precautions; and/or I have disinfected/sterilized medical equipment; and/or I have properly disposed of contaminated needles/syringes in bio-hazard waste. I have participated in medication error root cause analyses; and/or I have conducted controlled substance audits and inventories; and/or I have developed knowledge of medical accreditation patient safety guidelines; and/or I have administered medications to patients in respiratory isolation or reverse isolation; and/or I have monitored inmate workers in the area to ensure their compliance with safety and infection control. None of the above. 7 The Medication Technician administers medication to inmates in various locations, including the Health Services Unit, Special Housing Units, and other areas in the institution. He/she must also be familiar with reactions to medications and must be aware of signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patient&rsquo;s physical and/or emotional status as a result of taking certain medications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. &nbsp; I have administered medication to patients by the following routes: oral, sublingual, buccal, eye, ear, nasal, rectal, topical, gastro tube; and/or I have metered hand held inhalants; and/or I have assisted healthcare providers with exams or treatments; and/or I have prepared and administered parenteral medications to include insulin and monitoring side effects; and/or I have prepared and administered vaccinations; and/or I have prepared, administered, and accurately documented controlled substance medication administration. I am consulted with healthcare provider for clarification and accuracy, should questions regarding medication arise; and/or I have evaluated patient’s request for as-needed drugs and documented use; and/or I have prepared oral or parenteral medications according to patient safety standards; and/or I have checked pulse, blood pressure, or blood glucose as indicated prior to administering certain medications. I have administered medications in the following manner: rectal, oral, topical; and/or I have administered medications using unit dose or automated medication storage systems; and/or I have distributed prescriptions to patients. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).