Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Service that equipped you with the specific knowledge, skills and ability of the position.&nbsp; Specifically, experience that included IT support activities such as network administration, system administration, virtual machine administration, data storage administration, user support, or writing or modifying computer software professionally Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which statements best describe your experience administering computer networks? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have administered a multilevel data network with enterprise or carrier grade switches. I have professional experience administering data networks in an enterprise or institutional environment. I have administered data networks for Window workgroups or branch offices. I have administered data networks for Linux workgroups or branch offices. I have experience administering a data network at home. I have no experience administering data networks. 3 Which statements describe your experience analyzing network traffic and optimizing network routes on large capacity data networks? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have professional experience optimizing network routes for wide area data transmission between institutions. I have professional experience analyzing network traffic in an enterprise or institutional environment. I have professional experience optimizing network routes for data transmission within an institution. I have professional experience analyzing network traffic in an workgroup environment. I have measured network response times. I have no experience analyzing network traffic or optimizing network routes. 4 Which statement best describes your experience working in linux network administration at premier research organizations and astronomical observatories? Answer to this question is required I have more than 10 years of professional experience working in linux network administration at premier research organizations and astronomical observatories. I have 5-10 years of professional experience working in linux network administration at premier research organizations and astronomical observatories. I have 2-5 years of professional experience working in linux network administration at premier research organizations and astronomical observatories. I have 1-2 years of professional experience working in linux network administration at premier research organizations and astronomical observatories. I have never worked in linux network administration at premier research organizations and astronomical observatories. 5 Which statements describe your experience administering computer servers? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have professional experience administering Windows servers in an enterprise or institutional environment. I have professional experience administering Linux (or UNIX) servers in an enterprise or institutional environment. I have administered Windows servers for workgroups or branch offices. I have administered Linux (or UNIX) servers for workgroups or branch offices. I have no experience with administering computer servers. 6 Which statement best describes your training in administering Linux (or UNIX) servers and networks? (Select one) Answer to this question is required I have had formal training in administration of Linux (or Unix) servers and networks. I have trained myself in administration of Linux (or Unix) servers and networks.. I have learned Linux (or UNIX) as a hobby on my personal computer. I have no training in administration of Linux (or UNIX) servers and networks. 7 Which statements describe your experience with administering networked file systems? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have administered a networked file system consisting of Windows computers. I have administered a networked file system consisting of Mac OS computers. I have administered a networked file system consisting of Linux/UNIX computers. I have administered a networked file system consisting of RTOS computers. I have administered a networked file system consisting of Raspberry Pi computers. I have no experience with administering networked file systems. 8 Which statements describe your experience with administering network booted computers? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have administered a network booted system consisting of Windows computers. I have administered a networked file system consisting of Mac OS computers. I have administered a network booted system consisting of Linux/UNIX computers. I have administered a network booted system consisting of RTOS computers. I have administered a network booted system consisting of Raspberry Pi computers. I have no training in administration of Linux (or Unix) systems. 9 Which statements describe your experience administering public facing Webservers? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have professional experience administering Windows webservers in an enterprise or institutional environment such as IIS. I have professional experience administering Linux webservers in an enterprise or institutional environment such as Apache/NGINX. I have used Windows webservers. I have used Linux webservers. I have no experience with using webservers. 10 Which statements describe your experience level with server user management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have configured and maintained Windows Active Directory for user management. I have used Windows Active Directory for user management. I have configured and maintained Linux LDAP tools for user management. I have used Linux LDAP for user management. I have no experience with server user management. 11 Which statements describe your familiarity with the command prompt/terminal? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I can perform just about any system administration task from the Linux (UNIX) command-line, without ever needing to use a graphical user interface. I can perform just about any system administration task from the Windows command prompt, without ever needing to use a graphical user interface. I have experience with troubleshooting Linux (UNIX) systems using the command-line interface alone. I have experience with troubleshooting Windows systems using the Windows command prompt alone. I have used the Linux (UNIX) command line to configure network interfaces and firewalls. I have used the Windows command prompt to configure network interfaces and firewalls. I have used the command-line to edit text files. I have no experience with using the command prompt. I have no experience with using the command prompt. 12 Which of the following Linux tools do you have experience with? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required vi/emacs ssh/scp awk sed chmod ls cat more/less pwd which netcat telnet vnc apt dnf yum sudo I have no training in administration of Linux (or Unix) systems. 13 Which statements describe your administering virtual machine hosts? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have professional experience administering Windows virtual machines or container systems in an enterprise or institutional setting. I have professional experience administering Redhat virtual machine hosts or container systems in an enterprise or institutional setting. I have professional experience administering other (non-Redhat) Linux virtual machine hosts or container systems in an enterprise or institutional setting. I have no experience with administration of virtual machines. 14 Which of the following virtual machine/container systems have you used professionally? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required VMWare Vsphere Linux KVM VirtualBox Kubernetes containers Docker containers Amazon Web Services Microsoft Azure I have not used virtual machine systems. 15 Which statements describe your experience with administration of data storage? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have professionally administered data storage systems for a Linux computing environment.. I I I I have professionally administered data storage systems for a Windows computing environment. I have used data storage systems for a Linux computing environment. I have used data storage systems for a Windows computing environment. I have no experience with administration of data storage. 16 Which statements describe your experience using data backup systems? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have professionally administered data backup systems for a Linux computing environment. I have professionally administered data backup systems for a Windows computing environment. I have used data backup systems for a Linux computing environment. I have used data backup systems for a Windows computing environment. I have no experience with administration of data backup systems. 17 Which statement best describes your experience using script languages for Linux system administration tasks? Answer to this question is required I have written original scripts to perform Linux system administration tasks. I am familiar with Linux operating systems and I have modified existing system administration scripts. I have used existing software developed by others for Linux system administration tasks. I do not have experience working with scripting languages for Linux. 18 Which of the following programminging languages have you used professionally? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required C/C++ Java Javascript Python Perl Ansible Mason Unix shell scripts (bash, csh, zsh, etc.) Other I have not used any programming languages. 19 Which statements describe your experience conveying technical information orally? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led technical meetings. I have made formal oral announcements at technical meetings. I have not made oral announcements of technical information. 20 Which statements describe your experience presenting technical information in written form? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written documents describing technical installations, deployments, and user manuals. I have participated and commented on technical documentation. I have not written technical memos, papers, or reports. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.