Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining electrical systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of electrical systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with electrical systems under direct supervision from others. I have trained others on the procedures for performing electrical work. I have independently maintained electrical systems. None of the above. 2 Do you have&nbsp; experience performing journey-level electrical work without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment? Answer to this question is required I have completed training related to performing electrical work but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently performed installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment. None of the above. 4 Which task(s) have you performed to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Install wires Install conduits Install starters Install relays Install boxes Install circuit breakers None of the above 5 Which of the following professional certifications do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Apprentice Journeyman Certified Electrician Master Electrician None of the above 6 Please indicate your highest level of experience interpreting technical instructions or specifications: Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting technical instructions I followed technical instructions to install, repair, and assemble electrical equipment I am able to read and interpret sketches, blueprints, plans, and manufacturers’ specification I have used basic shop and trade mathematics 7 Have you completed the installation of full wiring systems for commercial buildings independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Please select the area(s) where you have performed work independently and with little supervision: Answer to this question is required Use electrical and schematic diagrams to troubleshoot electrical equipment. Install and repair lighting systems (Lutron dimmable ballast, LED dimming systems, HID lights) Install conduit up to 2" RGS or EMT. Install, troubleshoot and repair lighting circuits, receptacle circuits, low voltage, and motor circuits Installing new electrical lines 120, 208V and 480V Installing new electrical fixtures (CFL, LED and Lutron dimmable ballast systems) System start-up and check out for VFDs, and addressable lighting systems None of the above 9 Which of the following electrical equipment have you maintained or repaired? Answer to this question is required Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS). Generators Automatic transfer switches None of the Above 10 Select the hand tools you have used to perform electrical work. Answer to this question is required Wrenches (e.g., pipe wrench, torque wrench) Wire cutter/stripper Pliers (e.g., needle nose, channel lock) Side cutters Hack saw Tin snips Scratch awl Nut drivers Socket ratchet Tap and die set Pipe benders (manual) None of the above 11 Which hand and power tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw) Voltage testers Amp meters Circuit traces Meggers Cable pullers Hydraulic benders Pipe threading machines None of the above 12 On which of the following electronic and electrical systems, devices and controls have you repaired and performed troubleshooting tasks? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Electronic ballasts Electronic dimmer panels Automatic transfer switches Motor control centers Transformers Secondary power distribution lines Industrial multiphase systems Thermocouple sensors Electrical intrusion alarm Emergency warning systems Lighting protection systems High intensity lighting systems with associated controls AC and DC rectification systems Galvanic and impressed current cathodic protection systems Amplifier circuits Circuits used to supply a wide range of voltage, amperage, phase and frequency requirements to distribution panels, switch gear, power and control circuits. None of the above 13 Which of the following tasks have you performed to troubleshoot electrical circuits? Answer to this question is required Removed fixtures Replaced fixtures Removed controls Replaced controls Installed new outlets in existing circuits Relocated outlets in existing circuits Tightened connections Wrapped exposed wiring with tape Soldered loose wire leads to contact point None of the above 14 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience. Answer to this question is required I perform routine electrical repairs and maintenance duties including removing and replacing fixtures and controls. I am able to relocate or install new outlets and relays in existing systems. My work is assigned in broad general instructions covering the scope of the task assigned. My work is reviewed in terms of overall results achieved. I perform routine electrical repairs and maintenance duties including removing and replacing fixtures and controls. I am able to relocate or install new outlets and relays in existing systems. My work is assigned in detailed instructions covering the scope of the task assigned. My work is reviewed for compliance with acceptable trade practices. I make repairs that require tightening connections, wrapping exposed wiring with insulating tape, and soldering loose wire leads to contact points. My work is monitored and reviewed before closing out work orders. None of the above. 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.