Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the statements that describes your level of experience in Federal position classification. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a Basic Position Classification course. I have successfully completed a Fair Labor Standards Act workshop/course. I have successfully completed an Advanced Position Classification course I have successfully completed a Position Management Techniques to Improve Organizational Efficiency course. I have successfully completed a Principles of Classification course. I have reviewed position descriptions (PDs) for consistency with related PDs, approved organization, etc. I have independently researched, interpreted, and applied a variety of classification standards (with published criteria) for technical and clerical positions. I have researched, interpreted, and applied classification standards (with published criteria) for administrative, management, technical and clerical positions. I have independently and without supervisory review researched, interpreted, and applied classification standards (some without published criteria) for administrative, management and higher-level technical positions (i.e., scientific, engineering, other professional, IT, technical occupations and a variety of Federal Wage System occupations, etc). None of the above. 2 [Choose the position classification duties you routinely and successfully perform as part of your job. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have dealt with management and employees on complex or controversial classification issues that may affect grade level structures, reorganization, and/or changes in location or functions of a large number of positions. I have written position descriptions either for individual positions or to serve as a model for groups of similar positions. I have written evaluation statement explaining the basis for classification decisions by comparing position characteristics with applicable classification criteria. I have developed organizational charts and reorganization/realignment packages for appropriate office/division/branch. I have provided organizational and position information to appeal adjudicators and serve as an agency liaison on appeals of positions. I have evaluated drafts of OPM Classification standards and provided feedback to the appropriate officials. I have conducted or led briefings, meetings, and conferences on classification and position management issues. I have determined competitive levels. I have informed managers and employees of classification decisions on FLSA status, title, series, and/or grade for various positions. None of the above. 3 Which of the following occupations have you advised management in classification or position management matters? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professional Scientific Administrative Technical Crafts and Labor 4 Please select, from the options below your level of experience on a regular and recurring basis in developing and implementing recruitment &amp; outreach program requirements, and program strategies. Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of these tasks and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these tasks on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed tasks on the job. None of the above 5 I have performed the following successfully and routinely as a regular part of my job: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with a subject matter expert to develop a job analysis to identify the major duties, functions, and competencies required for entry into a position /grade. I have performed research on a particular subject, organizational mission, or function to gain insight on competencies required. I have independently developed job analyses to be reviewed by subject matter experts for input and finalization for positions to be filled. I have prepared procedural guidance and instructions on staffing and placement issues and problems. I have worked closely with top management to identify and resolve problems affecting recruitment and placement actions. None of the above. 6 Of the following staffing and placement functions, select only those for which you have achieved a high level of technical proficiency (assignments are carried out with independence; results are usually accepted without revisions). Answer to this question is required Advise management officials on various types of Federal appointments and their appropriate application in both the competitive and excepted services. Advise management officials on the procedural and regulatory requirements governing the merit promotion plan. Advise management officials on the procedural and regulatory requirements governing competitive announcements, both federal and private. Advise management officials on the provisions of applicable bargaining unit agreements. Utilizing subject matter experts, conducts job analyses in order to develop basic qualification statements and determine appropriate competencies, rating factors, and evaluation criteria for vacancy announcements. In compliance with applicable rules, regulations, and policies, develop recruitment announcements and evaluate and refer candidates. In compliance with applicable rules, regulations, and policies, develop recruitment announcements and evaluate and refer candidates for consideration of federal positions. None of the above. 7 I have a comprehensive knowledge of HR laws, regulations and policies and applied my knowledge on a regular basis to: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Effectively administer a recruitment and placement program. Evaluate and recommend actions on employee pay claims. Advise management, employees or employee representatives concerning recruitment and placement grievance procedures. None of the above. 8 From the choses below, select those that apply to your ability to utilize an automated recruitment and staffing system to refer eligible and highly qualified candidates to selecting officials by building, announcing, and managing question-based vacancies. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, but with close review and assistance from either a supervisor or a senior employee. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in performing this task or I have trained or instructed others so that they can perform this task. 9 From the choices below, select those that apply to your experience performing a variety of human resources tasks related to processing Federal personnel actions in an automated HR system. Answer to this question is required I have ensured the correct nature of action code, legal authority code, effective dates, and related data elements are entered into the system. I have reviewed a wide range of personnel actions involving numerous and complex pay systems, pay schedules and organizational elements, and as necessary, made corrections. I have reviewed a wide range of personnel actions to ensure the inclusion of all necessary documentation. I have reviewed a wide range of personnel actions to ensure the inclusion of all necessary documentation. I have had little exposure related to processing personnel actions in an automated HR system, but have extensive HR experience in other related areas. None of the above 10 From the choices below, select those that apply to your experience performing a variety of human resources tasks related to Federal personnel actions in an automated HR system.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience and expertise in performing this task or have trained others in performing this task. I have ensured the correct nature of action code, legal authority code, effective dates, and related data elements are entered into the system. I have reviewed a wide range of personnel actions involving numerous and complex pay systems, pay schedules and organizational elements, and as necessary, made corrections. I have reviewed a wide range of personnel actions to ensure the inclusion of all necessary documentation. I have had little exposure related to processing personnel actions in an automated HR system, but have extensive HR experience in other related areas. None of the above. 11 From the choices below, select those that apply to your experience as an HR Specialist responsible for developing criteria and evaluating candidates using an automated system that utilizes questions and responses to evaluate the candidates (QuickHire or a similar questions/response system.) Answer to this question is required Based on OPM qualification requirements, I have developed questions to determine whether candidates meet the basic requirements for entry into a position/grade. Based on a job analysis, I have developed questions to determine whether candidates have the experience/education identified as needed for entry. Based on a job analysis, I have utilized previously developed questions to determine whether candidates have the experience/education identified as needed for entry. I have conducted quality reviews on all candidates referred to managers to ensure that they meet the basic appointment and qualification eligibility requirements. I have conducted quality reviews on all candidates referred to managers to ensure that their question responses were supportable by the information supplied in a resume or other solicited information I have had little exposure to this type of an automated staffing and candidate assessment system, but have extensive HR staffing experience utilizing a different type of evaluation system. None of the above 12 Select the answer(s) that best describes your experience identifying and analyzing HR problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Provided automated solutions to organizational problems. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. Developed HR policies, regulations, procedures and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization’s goals and objectives. Interpreted and applied statutes and regulations to resolve an HR problem or issue. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. Developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings or meetings of senior management officials. Explained or justified decision, conclusions, findings and recommendations to management officials within the organization. My experience in identifying and analyzing HR problems, making logical decisions, and providing solutions has been recognized through performance appraisal and/or awards. None of the above 13 From the following responses, please select all the analytical activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work: Compiling and/or organizing data from a variety of sources. Answer to this question is required Recommending improvements to enhance program effectiveness. Assessing program requirements and operations to make recommendations for program improvement. Developing new processes and/or procedures to improve effectiveness. Identifying potential improvements to program practices and procedures in order to enhance efficiency and quality. Recommending changes to existing policies, procedures and/or practices to improve the effectiveness of projects/programs and/or administrative processes. Reviewing processes to ensure efficiency, cost-effectiveness, transparency and accountability. None of the above 14 From the following responses, please select the statements that most accurately reflects your experience: Answer to this question is required I have experience in applying laws and regulations in terms of foreign visitors and employees. I have experience preparing form DS-2019 for foreign visitors. I have experience counselling foreign visitors on their visa category. I have experience advising, compiling and submitting H1B petition packages to USCIS for specialty occupations. I am considered an expert in visa issues and regularly provide advice and assistance to foreign visitors/employees, managers and other HR Specialists. None of the above 15 I have experience processing paperwork relating to the following types of visa petitions listed below.&nbsp; Select all that apply Answer to this question is required J-1 visa H1-B visa TN visa F-1 Permanent Residency None of the above 16 I am or have been a Responsible Officer (RO) or an Alternate Responsible Officer (ARO). Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 As a regular and recurring part of my job, I have independently researched, analyzed, and interpreted laws, regulations, policies, and procedures regarding the following programs in order to provide guidance and assistance to employees and/or managers. Answer to this question is required Retirement Disability Retirement Insurance (health and/or life) Workers’ Compensation Pay administration None of the above. 18 I have experience making recommendations and decisions, formulating strategies, and reviewing regulations in the following human capital/human resources areas: Answer to this question is required Performance Management Labor Relations Employee Relations Employee Benefits Training None of the above. 19 Which best describes your experience in recommending disciplinary measures (e.g., warnings, cautions, reprimands, suspensions) to supervisors. Answer to this question is required I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. None of the above. 20 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describe your oral and written communications skills. Answer to this question is required Effectively communicated information to internal and external audiences. Conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. Effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. Developed and presented comprehensive material for reports, briefings or meetings with senior management officials. Developed and wrote HR policies, regulations, procedures, and plans for implementation to meet organizational goals and objectives. None of the above. 21 This position requires the skill to communicate in both formal and informal settings, including communicating effectively with the organization's management officials as well as with employees, external organizations, etc.&nbsp;&nbsp; Select the response that best represents your interpersonal communication experience. Answer to this question is required As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have routinely justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial staffing and/or classification policy or operating program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with senior management, employee organizations and/or individuals at all levels in the public Federal and private sectors to convey the relevant policies, regulations and procedures. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly represented my office's policies and/or procedures and lead discussions and participated in workgroups on staffing and/or classification matters. This included using effective communication skills to again a desired outcome or compliance from individual or groups skeptical or in disagreement with the policy, procedure or regulation. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts or resolve operating or procedural problems in staffing and/or classification programs. This included influencing or motivating individuals for groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly provided advice and assistance to those seeking employment related services from my office. Typically, the interaction would include acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. 22 Human Resource Specialists must communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, often without the benefit of established rules and guidelines. They must write a variety of correspondence and personnel documents. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have written position descriptions; and/or I have prepared justifications for above the minimum and/or recruitment bonus requests; and/or I have prepared memorandums or letters for management; and/or I have prepared e-mail messages to communicate HR information. I have prepared and presented employee performance evaluations as a rating official; and/or I have prepared responses to grievances; and/or I have prepared staff assist visit reports. I have prepared a disciplinary letter using facts and reports supplied by others; and/or I have written a newsletter article; and/or I have written recruitment literature. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.