Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform financial activities.** Performed a variety of financial activities associated with accounting functions such as processing: 1) interagency agreements, 2) receivable collections, 3) obligations, 4) payments, 5) revenue, and 6) reconciliations.&nbsp; In addition, reviewed or approved transactions, analyzed and prepared financial reports and other accounting reports in accordance with government accounting principles.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of financial activities including generally accepted government accounting principles. Independently audited financial transactions and established related policies and procedures for an agency financial program. Ensured funds were efficiently controlled, and reports accurately effected an organization's financial operations. Developed and executed reconciliation protocols to ensure consistency and accuracy in financial reporting across multiple platforms. Applied a working knowledge of financial activities including generally accepted government accounting principles. Monitored revenue and expense for an organization to ensure program funds were efficiently controlled. Applied a general knowledge of financial activities. Working under the guidance of an experienced accountant, assisted in creating revenue and expense reports on established schedules. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to perform budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting.** Performed budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting. Activities included: 1) formulated and justified budget requests; 2) provided financial data for the execution of programs; 3) monitored budget plans; 4) analyzed and synthesized financial data; 5) drafted reports based on financial data; 6) drafted budget proposals; and 7) indicated financial risks and opportunities. Answer to this question is required Performed budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting in ALL of the areas listed above. Performed budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting in at least FIVE of the areas listed above. Performed budget preparation, financial forecasting, analysis and reporting in at least FOUR of the areas listed above. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to monitor and analyze financial data for financial activities.** Monitored and analyzed financial data for the following financial activities: 1) monitored interagency agreements and service accounts; 2) researched and confirmed the validity of charges, verifying data and reconciling accounts; 3) reviewed funding and spending data to develop cost information and trends; 4) conducted data analysis, prepared reports and made recommendations for remedial action; 5) ensured adequate funds for program coverage; 6) developed new methods or criteria to resolve changing requirements for unusual financial issues; and 7) researched and evaluated automated systems. Answer to this question is required Monitored and analyzed financial data by performing ALL of the activities listed above. Monitored and analyzed financial data by performing at least FIVE of the activities listed above. Monitored and analyzed financial data by performing at least THREE of the activities listed above. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to provide assistance and consultation on financial matters, issues, and data. Provided financial consultation to staff at all levels, including program officials, managers, and other agencies to resolve fiscal related issues. Answer to this question is required Independently developed and rendered authoritative interpretations of accounting policies. Consulted with high level individuals both internal and external to an organization. Provided the agency position on program issues and policies. With minimal supervision, developed and rendered authoritative interpretations of accounting policies. Consulted with high level individuals both internal and external to an organization. Provided the agency position on program issues and policies. Provided assistance on financial matters and served as a consultant on interpretations of accounting policies. Consulted with individuals internal to an organization. Provided solutions to problems. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced written products such as: 1) responses to financial audits, 2) administrative reports, 3) analytical reports (e.g., cost reports, monthly, quarterly, and annual financial reports), 4) project plans, 5) financial statements, and 6) financial policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required Wrote ALL of the above documents and reports related to financial management. Wrote four (4) or five (5) of the above documents and reports related to financial management. Wrote three (3) of the above documents and reports related to financial management. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).