Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-08 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Maintenance Worker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and material needs; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have experience supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers. I have experience leading co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools, and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, a Maintenance Worker Supervisor must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization. I have experience as a foreman or staff member in a correctional setting supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work. I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institutions. I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes, and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 5 Maintenance Worker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of and have the ability to follow carpentry practices, such as taking precise measurements and keeping strict tolerances, conserving materials, applying new developments, and other practices used in construction and maintenance activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as an assistant to a self-employed construction or maintenance man; and/or I have performed various types of construction or maintenance tasks as instructed; and/or I have worked as a crew member for a building contractor; and/or I have erected framework, laid sub-flooring and performed other tasks as directed. While self-employed, I have performed various types of construction and maintenance work such as: constructed garages and sheds, remodeled interiors of homes, converted basements into recreation rooms, etc.; and/or I have converted ideas of homeowners into drawings and specifications, including price estimates. I have worked as a carpenter, brick-mason, or other construction work for homebuilders; and/or I have performed assigned tasks under the supervision of a foreman; and/or as a sub-contractor, I have performed finish work in homes being constructed; and/or I have independently performed the tasks of the trade involved. I have performed as sole maintenance person for a small plant; and/or I have repaired or altered various articles and end equipment; and/or I have erected partitions and made alterations to rooms and offices. None of the above. 6 Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications, such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed drawings and blueprints on all types of construction and maintenance tasks; and/or I have used technical manuals for specifications; and/or I have sketched rough drawings; and/or I have followed work orders, sketches and instructions from section foremen to perform all types of construction and maintenance work. I have followed blueprints and drawings to assemble prepared materials; and/or I have followed sketches and instructions from crew leaders in performing required tasks. I have used engineer's blueprints for model homes and translated for material requirements; and/or I have produced sketches for crew members for various sections; and/or I have checked work for strict compliance with blueprint specifications. While self employed, I have converted ideas of homeowners into drawings and specifications; and/or I have sketched drawings and estimated materials from specifications. None of the above. 7 Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lay out work and structures from blueprints, and use measuring tools common to the carpentry trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed blueprints in laying out pre-ordered materials; and/or I have laid out portions of pre-fabricated buildings at the direction of a section foreman; and/or following directions and drawings of a crew leader, I have laid out sections, framework and some finishing work. I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined the exact needs of material; and/or I have laid out work to be completed; and/or from work orders, I have sketched/laid out instructions for all types of finishing work for newly constructed homes. From complex blueprints, I have figured types of materials needed and planned the layout of entire buildings; and/or I have experience in using fine measurements in prescribing work to be done; and/or I have sketched drawings from blueprints for others to follow in laying out sections; and/or based on ideas from homeowners, I have developed plans, sketched drawings, performed all measurements, estimated materials needed, and laid out work and including finishing work. None of the above. 8 Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of and the ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I possess a well grounded knowledge of hand and power tools relevant to the general building trade; and/or I have the knowledge of and the ability to use power and hand tools as intended. I have instructed and provided technical direction in the use of various hand tools and equipment required to perform tasks; and/or I have the ability to determine proper operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunction are found; and/or while self-employed, I have instructed others in the use of all hand and power tools for the general building trade. I possess enough knowledge of equipment to use properly on routine tasks and seek assistance for more complex projects; and/or as a crew member, I have used hand tools and have limited experience using basic power tools. None of the above. 9 Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of the properties, purposes and uses of the various materials used in the general building trades. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience in determining the type of materials needed from specifications, based on knowledge of materials; and/or, as a sub-contractor, I have determined the proper material for various types of finishing work performed. While self-employed, I have determined the type of materials to be used for jobs; and/or I have inspected, accepted and rejected material to guarantee quality and adherence; and/or from specifications, I have ordered and inspected quality of bricks, blocks, lumber, tile. I have worked with all types of materials used in building housing framework; and/or I have assembled, as instructed, using proper size and type of nails, screws, bolts, etc.; and/or as a crew member, I am familiar with various materials used in the finish work of houses. As a maintenance worker in a plant or factory, I have determined the types of materials needed for alterations; and/or I have estimated and ordered all materials necessary to perform a wide variety of remodeling and alterations. None of the above. 10 Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have the ability to assemble, make, install, test, repair and perform the tasks of the position. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed maintenance and installation related to drywall, doors and windows, concrete and masonry products, flooring and interior finishes, plumbing, and welding equipment. I have completed a trade school program in maintenance or manufacturing; and/or I have worked as an apprentice in the construction industry under direct supervision of master tradesman. I have instructed subordinates how to hang and finish drywall, construct doors and windows, pour and finish concrete, lay block and brick walls, erect steel structures, lay tile (vinyl and ceramic), complete various types of plumbing tasks, install drop ceilings, repair glass, repair fence, repair damage to doors, paint, and weld multiple types of metal with various types of welding equipment. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).