Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Knowledge of library processes and procedures to identify, analyze and correct problems with library materials.** Demonstrated knowledge of library processes and procedures using established guidelines to identify, review, and update ILS bibliographic holding and item records. This included experience working with Integrated Library Systems for: 1) conducting online searches for library materials; 2) creating holdings and item information; 3) updating records; 4) correcting ILS records to make collections retrievable; 5) utilizing knowledge of industry standards to locate materials (e.g., MARC, LCCS, AACR2, RDA); and 6) linking barcodes on physical materials to item record. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive knowledge of library processes and procedures and performed ALL of the above tasks Demonstrated a broad knowledge of library processes and procedures and performed items 1 – 3 above, and at least one or two other of the tasks listed above. Demonstrated a basic knowledge of library processes and procedures and performed items 1 – 3 of the above tasks. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of library processes and procedures to perform circulation duties in a library setting.** Followed establish policies and procedures to create, and edit patron records and charge and discharge library materials. This also includes resolving problems with patron accounts, answering patron questions and accurately explaining circulation policies. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, created, edited, charged and discharged library materials in all formats for patrons. Independently conducted research to resolve problems with patron accounts, answered complex patron questions and accurately explained circulation policies. Perform advance functions such as linking the barcode on the physical item to the bibliographic record to create an inventory record for that specific item. As a primary job responsibility, created, edited, charged and discharged library materials in all formats for patrons. With minimal assistance, conducted research to resolve problems with patron accounts, answered routine or basic patron questions and accurately explained circulation policies. Occasionally created, edited, charged and discharged library materials in all formats for patrons. Answered basic patron questions regarding circulation and referred complex questions to a supervisor or senior specialist for resolution. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to use integrated library systems, databases, and other computer software applications.** Utilized information technology and online systems to create bibliographic, holding and item records that meet local and/or national standards. Performed bibliographic research, and increased the efficiency of the work. Systems and resources used included: 1) integrated library systems (e.g., Voyager); 2) bibliographic utilities (e.g., OCLC); 3) cataloging standards (e.g., Library of Congress Classification System, LCCS, MARC, AACr2, RDA); 4) word processing, spreadsheets, and document management software (e.g., MS Word, Excel, Adobe, Access); 5) email and scheduling software (e.g., Outlook); and 6) Internet search engines. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility used ALL of the systems and resources listed above, including Voyager, to perform bibliographic, holding and item activities. As a primary job responsibility used FIVE (5) of the systems and resources listed above to perform bibliographic, holding and item activities. As a primary job responsibility used FOUR (4) of the systems and resources listed above to perform bibliographic, holding and item activities. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to provide effective customer service. Created an environment in which a positive and professional service orientation is evident to customers by anticipating and recognizing current and future customer needs, putting the customer first, and maintaining a professional image. This included meeting commitments to customers on time and keeping them informed; seeking and using customer feedback; and handling complaints effectively. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, provided professional services to library customers through all channels (e.g., in-person, by phone, via email) to respond to a wide variety of questions related to complex library policies and services, including materials of a sensitive nature. Independently solved complaints and concerns using diplomacy, tact, and professionalism. Anticipated customer/client needs, and offered suggestions to enhance their experience. As a primary job responsibility, provided professional services to library customers through all channels (e.g., in-person, by phone, via email) to respond to a wide variety of questions related to library policies and services. With minimal assistance solved complaints and concerns using diplomacy, tact, and professionalism. As a primary job responsibility, provided professional services to library customers through all channels (e.g., in-person, by phone, via email) to respond to a wide variety of routine questions related to library policies and services. Referred customer to a supervisor or higher level specialist for resolutions of problems. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to work in a team environment interacting collaboratively with others. Worked collaboratively with various individuals inside and outside the organization to plan and complete work assignments accurately and within established deadlines . Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, worked effectively, establishing rapport with senior level individuals, including government representatives, scholars, managers, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure deadlines were met and assignments were completed on time. Completed work accurately and ahead of schedule. As a primary job responsibility, worked with supervisors, co-workers, patrons, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure deadlines were met and assignments were completed on time. Completed work assignments planned and monitored by supervisor to meet team objectives. Completed work accurately and within established deadlines. Worked with others within an organization as needed to execute special projects or to compile and present routine information. Completed work accurately and within established deadlines. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to plan work and meet deadlines. Planned and carried out work assignments. Organized time to work both productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) setting priorities, 2) determining long-term vs. short-term priorities, 3) negotiating deadlines for competing priorities, and 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints. Answer to this question is required Independently planned and carried out work assignments. Organized time to work both productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) setting priorities, 2) determining long-term vs. short-term priorities, 3) negotiating deadlines for competing priorities, and 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints. With minimal supervision planned out work assignments to perform the duties of the position. This included setting priorities and meeting deadlines. Completed work assignments primarily planned by supervisor to perform the duties of the position. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).