Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience preventing unauthorized entry into a restricted area such as a crime scene or a secure facility (such as ID inspections, barrier controls, gate controls, levels of force, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have received training in this task but have never performed it. I have performed this task under close supervision. I have independently performed this task. I have independently performed this task, trained others, and was responsible for evaluating other law enforcements or security personnel. None of the above. 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in conducting inspections to ensure adequate security coverage? Answer to this question is required I have limited experience performing this task. I have conducted occasional unscheduled inspections of posts to ensure adequate security coverage on behalf of a senior security guard. I have performed this task independently and as a regular part of my job. I have conducted frequent unscheduled inspections of posts to ensure adequate security coverage; and I have performed uniform and personal inspections to make certain that officers are ready, willing and able to perform their duties. I have supervised this task. I have experience overseeing subordinate supervisors who conduct frequent unscheduled inspections of posts to ensure adequate security coverage and who perform uniform and personal inspections to make certain that officers are ready, willing and able to perform their duties. I promptly take appropriate action when guard strength is insufficient. I do not have experience in performing this task. 4 Do you have experience reviewing various police services, activities and determining appropriate standards in law enforcement, security and communication for a major organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following work locations or environments do you have experience performing customer service related functions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Museum/Art gallery Retail/Convenience store Airport Government building U.S. Park Federal installation Hotel Federal, state or local office Library Embassy Hospital Warehouse School Law Enforcement facility Bank None of the above. 6 Do you have experience performing security related tasks such as crowd control, detaining violators, securing crime scenes, etc? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following best describes your level of experience responding to medical emergencies? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following statements best describe your knowledge of security principles, policies, procedures, operational security requirements and ability to manage a security program of moderate scope? Answer to this question is required I have experience directing subordinates in an assigned security unit (i.e. security guards, plainclothes officers, control room operators, etc.); conducting physical security inspections to determine security requirements; and providing training to subordinates on security procedures. I have experience as a lead security officer and/or law enforcement officer; and experience utilizing security principles, policies and procedures to manage security functions such as crowd control, security escorts, surveillances and apprehension of violators/criminals (e.g. museum shoplifters, pickpockets, etc.) I have experience as a security officer and/or law enforcement officer; and experience applying routine security principles, policies and procedures. 9 Which of the following statements best indicates the highest level of experience you have leading teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams to accomplish a common goal. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned formal leadership or supervisory responsibilities. I have supervised people assigned to me to complete a specific project or task. I have held a team leader position or acted in the absence of the supervisor. I have held full-time a supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of others. 10 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to handle task such as&nbsp; creating work schedules, checking time and attendance, writing memos and reports keeping track of supplies, and organizing training? Answer to this question is required I have experience performing supervisory administrative functions such as assigning shifts and developing work schedules for subordinate employees; preparing incident reports, overtime logs, timecards, audits, property inventories; and reviewing daily wok logs. I have experience performing various administrative duties such as preparing various reports, memorandums and spreadsheets; maintaining case files; conducting inventory; and ordering supplies. I have education and/or training in general administrative policies and procedures such as typing, filing, answering phone calls. I have not had education, training or experience performing this task. 11 Which of the following responses best describes your knowledge, training, and experience in managing teams, including understanding key leadership and supervisory guidelines?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision, management or project management, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled operators as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled operators on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have knowledge, training and experience in leadership, project management and supervisory concepts and principles; and supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled operators as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review. 12 I have performed the following leadership functions successfully in projects that I have led or was assigned senior staff responsibility. Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines and expectations Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience in relaying messages to proper personnel and maintaining an activity log? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Check all of the security related subjects/topics in which you have received training or certification. Answer to this question is required Firearms Detain and arrest Rules of evidence Security Guard procedures Radio procedures Hand-cuffing procedures Ticket writing Report writing Customer service Verbal communication X-ray machine Patrol and inspection procedures None of the above. 15 Which of the following most accurately describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the classroom. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have had work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in receiving and dispatching radio and telephone transmissions? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which of the following types of audiences do you have experience communicating with in a professional environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Co-workers Supervisors Middle Managers or Directors Senior Officials Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations (e.g., unions, associations) Civic Organizations Subordinate staff None of the above 18 Which of the following statements best describes your ability communicating orally to explain procedures, provide instructions and resolve administrative, personnel and EEO issues? Answer to this question is required I have experience as a security officer and/or law enforcement officer giving orders and communicating detailed instruction, explaining policies and procedures to subordinate staff in a clear, concise and timely manner regarding specific duties to conduct their daily activities; and providing technical advice, assistance and counseling to resolve complaints by employees or staff. I have experience as a security officer and/or law enforcement officer explaining policies and procedures, and providing detailed instructions to staff and visitors. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had education, training or experience performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.