Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience with applying the nationality laws of the United States? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this area, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 5 This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts. Choose the statements that describe services you have provided as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Served as a spokesperson for an organization. Facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. Provided guidance to peers, subordinates, and others in a customer service environment. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best represents your level of experience in dealing with people from different cultures / countries? Answer to this question is required I have delivered training on how to deal with people from different cultures / countries. I have received training on deal with people from different cultures / countries. I have lived overseas. I have worked in the immigration services field. I have no experience in dealing with people from different cultures / countries. 7 Which of the following describes your ability to mediate differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution? Answer to this question is required I have successfully led the meditation of a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have assisted in the mediation of a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have participated in situations where others mediated a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have education or training in mediation problem solving, but have not yet applied this skill in the work environment. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 8 I have utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the following area(s): Answer to this question is required Dealt successfully with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed. Dealt successfully with individuals who do not speak English as a first language. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action. Succeeded in working with co-workers, supervisors and high level management. None of the above. 9 Which of the following describes your experience developing consensus among fellow workers and or customers? Answer to this question is required Resolved competing or conflicting interests among entities whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Maintained consensus of a group under circumstances where there were changes, delays, or unexpected events that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided training and guidance to new staff on how to achieve consensus with each other and agency partners. Persuaded others to reach agreement on programmatic issues. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 10 Please identify each of the following with which you have education, training, or experience? Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Counseling Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADP) None of the above 11 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. None of the above. 12 Select the response that describes the highest level audience to which you have orally presented education, business, and/or scientific research related information. Answer to this question is required Classmates Co-workers/Peers Mid-level managers Upper level management External audiences or interested parties I have no experience in performing these tasks. 13 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have frequently worked in team environments and have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I have no experience working in teams. 14 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways. Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 15 Which of the following best describes your education or experience with reviewing the accuracy and veracity of documents? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 16 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? (MC) Answer to this question is required Produced a technical or policy report that relays findings in a larger context. Analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue. Produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results. Collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 17 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above. 18 From the following list please select those to whom you have provided human resources advisory services. Answer to this question is required Human Resources Specialists Field Representatives Employees Supervisors Management Officials Colleagues/Peers Government officials General Public Union officials State, local and federal agencies Private industry Family members Foreign Service Nationals Foreign Governments International Organizations None of the above 19 Which of the following describes your level of experience providing advisory services on Human Resource matters? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have education or training concerning work of this nature but have not yet applied it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I have performed this task, trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.