Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a PH.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that demonstrates the knowledge, skill and ability necessary to do the work. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work. I have 1 year of SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE at or equivalent to GS-9 level in the announcement. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience acting as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting to serve as financial advisor to members of management staff. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following describes your experience using financial and management information systems such as the Enterprise Resource Management System (ERP) and Excel spreadsheets to allow the comparison of a variety of forms and financial documents to resolve financial questions and to prepare financial reports? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience developing reports to identify variances between the accounting systems and budget reports or other internal reports detailing reasons for variance and presenting possible solutions. I have work experience preparing internal financial reports for an organization on items such as monthly updates to salary models, reports detailing telecommunications charges, and monthly expenditure reports by department identification. I have work experience completing forms and spreadsheets to prepare financial reports for an organization using an automated financial system such as ERP. I have work experience completing forms and spreadsheets to prepare financial reports for an organization without using an automated financial system. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products, documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department? Answer to this question is required I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products and documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have made contractor assignments, reviewed completed work products and documented the contract status, accepted/rejected submitted invoices, and acted as liaison with the Procurement office/department, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in making contractor assignments, reviewing completed work products and documenting the contract status, accepting/rejecting submitted invoices, and acting as liaison with the Procurement office/department. 5 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 6 Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages. Answer to this question is required I have experience rearranging workload priorities to complete the procurement process and submit purchase request packages while maintaining a timely and high-quality level of performance on other assigned actions. I have experience dealing with assignments that are “out of the ordinary”, oftentimes with program personnel that have no prior experience with the procurement process. I have experience completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages under a great deal of pressure to meet extremely short deadlines while dealing with the demands for action that may be improper or unfeasible. I have some experience in completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages. None of the above. 7 Which of the following have you performed on a regular basis using computer applications and software? (Select all that apply). &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have reconciled funds by comparing data from ERP with Excel Spreadsheets and resolving discrepancies. I have run reports and compared initial estimates to budget actuals. I have projected expenditures through the balance of the fiscal year, detecting variations and watching for trends in expense line items. I have gathered data for financial reports to prepare monthly updates to salary models and monthly expenditure reports by department identification. I have reviewed Payroll Cost Reports and ensured that organization codes, chart fields and timekeeping errors were corrected through the appropriate department and/or payroll office. None of the above 8 Which of the following describes your experience analyzing financial data using an organization&rsquo;s financial system to track, reconcile and report on its financial resources? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing financial data using a computerized financial system other than the ERP Financials system to track, reconcile and report on a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization's financial resources. I have experience. analyzing financial data using the ERP Financials system to track, reconcile and report on a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization's financial resources. I have experience analyzing financial data using the ERP Financials system or another computerized system to track, reconcile and report on an organization’s financial resources that is other than a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization. None of the above 9 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability and experience to communicate orally and in writing? Answer to this question is required I have had extensive experience applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I‘ve demonstrated the ability to communicate with colleagues and superiors in order to receive and carry out work assignments in a timely and effective manner. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in the workplace (i.e., explaining technical financial/accounting issues to individuals with limited financial knowledge). I have limited experience communicating with colleagues and upper management on the routine aspects of financial or accounting matters. I have experience accomplishing related tasks, but customer service has not been a requirement. I have experience communicating with a broad range of individuals on topics that are technical and/or complex in nature. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.