Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret and apply laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret and apply laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret and apply laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in integrating information from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing these tasks and provide guidance and supervision to others in these areas. I have performed these task on the job independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed these task on the job under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have training or education directly related to these tasks, but I have not performed them on the job. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 6 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the Above Apply. 7 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Case summary report Talking points Congressional inquiry responses Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers Newspaper or magazine articles Standard operating procedures None of the above 8 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to communicate ideas clearly and concisely in writing to many different types of audiences? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others on this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects. Establish timelines for multiple projects. Close out projects. Start up and manage projects through completion. Establish and monitor project progress. Meet deadlines. Use project management software. Make resource decisions for competing projects. Assign tasks and monitor performance. Anticipate and resolve problems. Facilitate and establish program deadlines and communicate them to the staff. Provide guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. React effectively to unforeseen events or delays and rearrange priorities and work assignments. None of the above. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in ALL of the following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, and performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following topics: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to manage teams? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have not yet applied this ability to work situations. I have formal training or education in managing teams. I have applied this ability to work situations. I have no formal training or education in managing teams. However, I have had experience applying this ability to work situations. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 12 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 13 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. None of the above. 14 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience providing technical advice and guidance to managers, co-workers, headquarters staff and decision-makers on undefined issues and elements for programs critical to the agency`s mission? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 Which of the following best reflects your experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues. I have education or training researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently researched and resolved complex visa and immigration issues as a regular part of the job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 16 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 17 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education, training, or experience with U.S. immigration laws? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in with U.S. immigration laws. I have formal training or education in or with U.S. immigration laws. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 18 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Students Colleagues Academia Government organizations Congress Foreign audiences Private industry General public Professional organizations None of the above 19 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. None of the above. 20 Which of the following describes your ability to mediate differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution? Answer to this question is required I have successfully led the meditation of a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have assisted in the mediation of a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have participated in situations where others mediated a variety of differing viewpoints to achieve a workable solution. I have education or training in mediation problem solving, but have not yet applied this skill in the work environment. I have no experience in performing these tasks. 21 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience in leading and motivating subordinates? Answer to this question is required I have experience as a supervisor for an organization by providing input to performance appraisals, assigning work, and assessing the quality of federal employees or contractor work. I have team leader experience for an organization and have led ad hoc or project teams. I have experience in training and/or mentoring subordinates or lower graded employees. I have education or training in how to lead a team and/or motivating people. None of the above 22 Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I work on multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflict with the assistance of supervisor or senior employee. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. I resolve conflicts independently. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.