Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The National Policy and Program Coordinator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the Public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. He/she must be able to develop and present information simply and comprehensively to a variety of audiences on a variety of topics. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided program oversight for female offenders and other special population inmates; and/or I have assisted in the development and implementation of new special population programming; and/or I have provided training and supervision of treatment staff; and/or I have answered questions from the field or regional staff; and/or I have responded to inmate complaints; and/or I have handled a difficult situation using tact and diplomacy; and/or I have resolved inter and intra-departmental issues. I have clearly communicated program requirements to inmates; and/or I have used effective communication skills to share special population programming guidelines; and/or I have answered questions from staff; and/or I have responded verbally to inmate questions; and/or I have handled a correctional situation using clear communication and problem solving skills; and/or I have given presentations to inmates; and/or I have resolved inmate concerns through the use of oral communication. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have facilitated a labor negotiation team; and/or I have facilitated community based meetings to promote the agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit related to a special population to managers/Executive Staff, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. None of the above. 5 The National Policy and Program Coordinator must be able to correspond effectively with Bureau of Prisons staff, inmates, members of Congress, other federal, state, and local agencies , and the public in writing. He/she prepares a variety of reports and articles for internal and external publication. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared internal correspondence for review; and/or I have documented activity on inmate activity record for supervisor’s review; and/or I have proofread individual work prior to distribution. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have edited an internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. I have prepared draft articles for agency specific internal publication; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. None of the above. 6 The National Policy and Program Coordinator is responsible for developing, implementing, and overseeing programs/policies for female offenders and other special populations. He/she also analyzes the effectiveness of Bureau of Prisons programs and policies and provides recommendations for their improvement as they relate to the unique needs of women. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and evaluated institution operating procedures and recommended methods to improve services; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures related to the management of inmates based on review of governing policies, laws, regulations or professional guidelines; and/or I have gathered information to inform agency leadership of the development of new program statements or to update existing agency policies; and/or I have reviewed a variety of reports to create a multi-disciplinary management plan targeting specific inmate populations; and/or I have independently created metrics for measuring compliance with accommodations to support the agency in meeting with existing law. I have reviewed SENTRY or other database information in the preparation of a funding request to assist the Cost Center Manager; and/or I have tracked current trends and made suggestions; and/or I have reviewed policy changes and made suggestions for internal agency updates. I have updated/streamlined current local management procedures; and/or I have reviewed SENTRY or other database information to assist in the preparation of a funding request for the special populations; and/or I have tracked evolving special population trends and integrated them into the training, guidance or direction; and/or I have provided guidance for the implementation of policy for special population inmates; and/or I have made recommendations based on available information to improve current special population intervention protocols. None of the above. 7 The National Policy and Program Coordinator establishes and maintains effective working relationships with individuals from a different range of backgrounds, political and social levels, national and local agencies, and community and religious organizations, that are involved or impact the development of multi-disciplinary special populations issues in such a way that motivates and influences them to collaborate and participate in a varied range of activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a community relations activity; and/or I have suggested partnerships with community resources; and/or I have assisted in the development of partnerships with local stakeholders. I have assisted with an open house for specific groups or tours or speaking at a local civic event/function; and/or I have coordinated partnerships with local agencies to include participation in community relations activities; and/or I have worked with staff at varying levels throughout the Bureau and developed partnerships and community resources with external stakeholders; and/or I have identified resources to provide services targeted for female offenders and their families; and/or I have participated in the development of local partnerships which address special populations. I have developed a broad base of partnership with community resources to assist meeting the needs of special populations; and/or I have cultivated and identified volunteers and mentors to meet program needs identified for the inmate population, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have developed and organized resources to provide services targeted for female offenders and their families; and/or I have coordinated the development of local partnerships and collaborative efforts which address workforce development and skill development initiatives to include joint training efforts; and/or I have worked in partnership with multiple disciplines/agencies, identified strategies and developed plans that address targeted needs of population; and/or I have developed positive community relations reflected by ongoing community involvement and support of the institution’s mission and programs. None of the above. 8 The National Policy and Program Coordinator must have a thorough knowledge of available research concerning the management and treatment of female offenders and/or special populations. In addition, he/she must be knowledgeable about research practices, including statistics, research design, and program evaluation to include the management and treatment of the inmate population. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a program for a population of inmates with special clinical needs; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a clinical individual management plan for a special population inmate; and/or I have prepared a written literature review on using sex-responsive practices in the management of female offenders to assist staff with regard to program development; and/or I have ensured Bureau policy and procedures were in line with legislation and Executive Orders meeting the needs of the special population inmates; and/or I have tracked pending litigation relation to special populations. I have assisted in the development of research measures to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment protocol; and/or I have independently managed responses to special population inmate administrative remedies; and/or I have provided guidance to Wardens and Regional Supervisory staff on appropriate responses as they apply to case law decisions; and/or I have evaluated the effectiveness of a female offender program; and/or I have conducted a comprehensive literature review to determine appropriate outcome measures for female or special population inmates and utilized this information to recommend a research protocol for an existing program; and/or I have tracked pending litigation in relation to special populations and suggested steps to agency leadership for the resolution of complex cases. I have reviewed literature on using sex-responsive practices in the management of female offenders to assist inmates in meeting program objectives; and/or I have reviewed current Bureau policy and procedures regarding the needs of the special population inmates and suggested one procedural change to a supervisor; and/or I have reviewed pending litigation in relation to Federal populations and processed with a supervisor to evaluate possible implications. None of the above. Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The National Policy and Program Coordinator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the Public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. He/she must be able to develop and present information simply and comprehensively to a variety of audiences on a variety of topics. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided briefings to upper level management on sensitive issues; and/or I have guided a workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have given presentations on female offender programs to other agencies and responded to questions; and/or I have given press conferences; and/or I have given presentations at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings; and/or I have resolved complex conflicts among supervisors, co-workers and/or peers. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have facilitated a labor negotiation team; and/or I have facilitated community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit related to a special population to managers/Executive Staff, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. I have provided program oversight for female offenders and other special population inmates; and/or I have assisted in the development and implementation of new special population programming: and/or I have provided training and supervision of treatment staff; and/or I have answered questions from the field or regional staff; and/or I have responded to inmate complaints; and/or I have handled a difficult situation using tact and diplomacy; and/or I have resolved inter and intra-departmental issues. None of the above. 5 The National Policy and Program Coordinator must be able to correspond effectively with Bureau of Prisons staff, inmates, members of Congress, other federal, state, and local agencies, and the public in writing. He/she prepares a variety of reports and articles for internal and external publication. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared draft articles for agency specific internal publication; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual work prior to submission for final action or review. I have authored an article which was published in a nationally recognized publication; and/or I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws, regulations in laymen's terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have developed national training initiatives. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have edited an internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in a Program/Operational Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. None of the above. 6 The National Policy and Program Coordinator is responsible for developing, implementing, and overseeing programs/policies for female offenders and other special populations. He/she also analyzes the effectiveness of Bureau of Prisons programs and policies and provides recommendations for their improvement as they relate to the unique needs of women and other special population inmates while serving as a practitioner of interventions that support special population inmates. He/she utilizes his/her command of the special population research and legal landscape to direct Wardens on the proper implementation of policy and other agency guidance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated/streamlined current local management procedures; and/or I have reviewed SENTRY or other database information to assist in the preparation of a funding request for the special populations; and/or I have tracked evolving special population trends and integrated them into the training, guidance or direction; and/or I have provided guidance for the implementation of policy for special population inmates; and/or I have made recommendations based on available information to improve current special population intervention protocols. I have analyzed and evaluated institution operating procedures and recommended methods to improve services; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures related to the management of inmates based on review of governing policies, laws, regulations or professional guidelines; and/or I have gathered information to inform agency leadership of the development of new program statements or to update existing agency policies; and/or I have reviewed variety of reports to create a multi-disciplinary management plan targeting specific inmate populations; and/or I have created metrics for measuring compliance with accommodations to support the agency in meeting with existing law. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved female offender programs; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems related to correctional management of a special population group of inmates; and/or I have recommended a method to implement new agency/organization policy to manage female inmates and other special populations which impacted several divisions/units/offices; and/or I have extrapolated guidance from community standards to ensure proper accommodations are provided as appropriate within a correctional environment; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization structure and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective delivery of services. None of the above. 7 The National Policy and Program Coordinator establishes and maintains effective working relationships with individuals from a different range of backgrounds, political and social levels, national and local agencies, and community and religious organizations, that are involved or impact the development of multi-disciplinary special populations issues in such a way that motivates and influences them to collaborate and participate in a varied range of activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved conflicting priorities among multi-agency stakeholders and achieved program goals; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel from multiple agencies or disciplines needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have addressed and implemented intra-agency or multi-disciplinary programs focused on population needs. I have developed a broad base of partnerships with community resources to assist meeting the needs of special populations; and/or I have cultivated and identified volunteers and mentors to meet program needs identified for the inmate population, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have developed and organized resources to provide services targeted for female offenders and their families; and/or I have coordinated the development of local partnerships and collaborative efforts which address workforce development and skill development initiatives to include joint training efforts; and/or I have worked in partnership with multiple disciplines/agencies, identified strategies and developed plans that address targeted needs of population; and/or I have developed positive community relations reflected by ongoing community involvement and support of the institution’s mission and programs. I have assisted with an open house for specific groups or tours or spoke at a local civic event/function; and/or I have coordinated partnerships with local agencies to include participation in community relations activities; and/or I have worked with staff at varying levels throughout the Bureau and developed partnerships and community resources with external stakeholders; and/or I have identified resources to provide services targeted for female offenders and their families; and/or I have participated in the development of local partnerships which address special populations. None of the above. 8 The National Policy and Program Coordinator must have a thorough knowledge of available research concerning the management and treatment of female offenders and/or special populations. In addition, he/she must be knowledgeable about research practices, including statistics, research design, and program evaluation to include the management and treatment of the inmate population. He/she collaborated with state and Federal elected officials on the development of legislation and Executive Orders from the Office of the President. He/she interpreted legal decisions in various Federal jurisdictions as they applied to special population inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a program for a population of inmates with special clinical needs; and/or I have utilized available research to develop a clinical individual management plan for a special population inmate; and/or I have prepared a written literature review on using sex-responsive practices in the management of female offenders to assist staff with regard to program development; and/or I have ensured Bureau policy and procedures were in line with legislation and Executive Orders meeting the needs of the special population inmates; and/or I have tracked pending litigation relation to special populations. I have assisted in the development of research measures to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment protocol; and/or I have independently managed responses to special population inmate administrative remedies; and/or I have provided guidance to Wardens and Regional Supervisory staff on appropriate responses as they apply to case law decisions; and/or I have evaluated the effectiveness of a female offender program; and/or I have conducted a comprehensive literature review to determine appropriate outcome measures for female or special population inmates and utilized this information to recommend a research protocol for an existing program; and/or I have tracked pending litigation in relation to special populations and suggested steps to agency leadership for the resolution of complex cases. I have created a behavioral baseline to understand behavior and rein-forcers of mental illness and applied these findings to the development of a treatment protocol; and/or I have developed a research project to evaluate the effectiveness of a program to meet the needs of female offenders; and/or I have reviewed the available literature on the impact of current management practices on special populations to assist in the development of a program/protocol, with appropriate outcome measures to assess program effectiveness, based upon this review; and/or I have devised methods that met current security procedures for the agency to implement all provisions in a cost-effective and research-supported manner. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).