Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator conducts research to evaluate the effectiveness of agency programs and policies and provide recommendations for their improvement as they relate to the preparation of offenders for reentry.&nbsp;He/she collects information and analyze resources, draws conclusions, and makes recommendations to develop additional resources, policies, plans and/or programs to enhance skill development and reentry success.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted research and evaluated/analyzed programs and resources and provided recommendations in the formulation, establishment, or modification of program objectives, plans, and/or policies having direct impact on local agency operations; and/or I have reviewed programs to determine their applicability to the inmate population and formulated local policy recommendations; and/or I have compiled information to target special population needs and made recommendations for further skill development programs and resources and/or changes to policy and procedures; and/or I have compiled data and assessed the quality and completeness of the application of assessment tools and planning documents; and/or I have prepared reports and presented them to supervisory staff to demonstrate the impact of programs and practices on skill development and reentry efforts. I have analyzed data and information to complete work assignments at local level; and/or I have reviewed programs and resources and recommended strategies for enhancement to address local needs; and/or I have developed tracking and monitoring to determine application and quality of local programs; and/or I have compiled information to target special population needs and made recommendations for further programs and resources; and/or I have reviewed and utilized assessment tools to target program needs. I have conducted management assessment; and/or I have analyzed managements objectives and on-going operating programs and assessed their relative value in the overall goals of the agency; and/or I have reviewed policy to determine consistency with other policies or regulations; and/or I have reviewed forms or documents for completeness and conformity to instructions/policy; and/or I have conducted a perpetual audit of a program review standard. None of the above. 6 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator must effectively organize and coordinate multi-disciplinary and multi-agency related projects and processes to effectively enhance the skill development of offenders and ensure the availability of comprehensive reentry resources for the successful transition of offenders.&nbsp;He/she independently initiates projects and facilitates their development from conception through final implementation.&nbsp;This involves coordination and development of relevant policy directives and monitoring and management of the application of processes across multiple disciplines and agencies.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have routinely assisted in the tracking of inmates in a program, class, or job assignment; and/or I have regularly utilized SENTRY to monitor the status of inmates; and/or I have monitored procedures within the department through the collection and maintenance of data on a routine basis. I have utilized organizational and data collection studies on projects relating to offenders from institutions; and/or I have developed flow charts and task analysis of department functions and program impacts across disciplines; and/or I have coordinated and monitored the use of statistical reports for executive level staff and external agencies such as the Department of Justice, Government Accountability Office, and Office of Inspector General to assist in developing policy implementation for initiatives; and/or I have monitored or coordinated a career resource center for their institution which provided a wide range of resources for the inmate population to include: career assessments, employment preparation services, job seeking assistance nationwide, identification and linkage to community resources and social service agencies in inmate’s releasing area. I have monitored information relating to the needs of offenders from institutions; and/or I have coordinated the use of flow charts and task analysis of department functions and program impacts across disciplines; and/or I have provided information used in the development of statistical reports for executive level staff and external agencies for the implementation of policy for local program efforts; and/or I have maintained/monitored the use of automated systems designed specifically to establish efficient methods for information collection and distribution. None of the above. 7 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator establishes and maintains effective working relationships with individuals from a different range of backgrounds, political and social levels, national and local agencies, and community and religious organizations, that are involved or impact the development of skill development and reentry initiatives in such a way that motivates and influences them to collaborate and volunteer to participate in a varied range of activities.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with an open house for specific groups or tours or speaking at a local civic event/function; and/or I have coordinated partnerships with local agencies to include community relations activities; and/or I have worked with staff at varying levels nationwide and developed reentry resources which addressed the geographical distribution of the releasing offender population to include development of vocational training, apprenticeships, and mentor components; and/or I have organized volunteers and mentors to meet program needs identified for the inmate population, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have identified community reentry resources to provide services targeted for returning offenders and their families; and/or I have worked closely with local partnerships in the development and collaborative efforts which address workforce development and skill development initiatives to include joint training efforts. I have worked with staff at varying levels locally and developed a broad base of reentry resources which address the geographical distribution of the releasing offender population; and/or I have monitored volunteers and mentors to meet program needs identified for the inmate population, including recruitment, training, tracking and recognition efforts; and/or I have utilized community reentry resources to provide services targeted for returning offenders and their families; and/or I have organized committees which focused on local partnerships and collaborative effort which address workforce development. I have distributed information to partners related to institution needs and resources; and/or I have followed up with staff to share information on various topics related to reentry, volunteers, and or programs; and/or I have managed resources assigned to a department; and/or I have requested and organized a meeting with internal/external partners. None of the above. 8 The Reentry Affairs Coordinator serve as the in-house resource for other Reentry Affairs Coordinators (local, regional, and national) in the agency and must be able to clearly communicate a wide array of information, including technical, statistical, and conceptual information to a variety of audiences (internal and external).&nbsp;He/she must be able to effectively conduct training sessions, facilitate meetings, and prepare presentations in various formats to meet the needs of the targeted audience.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with others internal to the organization on non-sensitive issues/topics such as serving on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have shared recommendations/comments during staff meetings; and/or I have interacted with co-workers to ensure successful completion of tasks; and/or I have provided recommendations to supervisor to share information related to job duties. I have interacted with high ranking officials internal to the organization to develop and brief executive staff/upper management on complex issues/new policy recommendations; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have developed and modified programs and/or presentations to department heads; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to co-workers and peers or local community partners. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).