Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have a doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an APA accredited psychology program. Answer to this question is required True False 2 Select the choice that best describes the status of the jurisdiction you are permitted to practice psychology. Answer to this question is required I have a current license to practice psychology in the District of Columbia. I am licensed to practice psychology in another jurisdiction and in the District of Columbia. I am licensed to practice psychology in another jurisdiction but I am eligible to receive my District of Columbia license within 180 calendar days of my appointment. None of the above. 3 I have at a minimum three (3) years of experience applying established scientific methods and principles of psychology. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Select a response that best describes your supervisory training and/or experience. Answer to this question is required I have completed a management training program but have not applied this experience as a part of my current duties. I have completed a management training program and have performed duties of a first-line supervisor or higher for at least one (1) year. I have two (2) years or more of experience as a supervisor. None of the above 5 I have experience supervising interns and/or doctoral level graduate students in the area of psychological treatment and evaluation. Answer to this question is required True False 6 Select the choice(s) that best describes the documents you have experience writing. Answer to this question is required Clinical diagnoses Peer reviewed research articles Treatment progress notes Treatment summaries Statistical reports and narratives Informational documents for awareness (flyers, brochures, etc.) Program evaluations and recommendations Comprehensive program reports Executive summaries Memorandums None of the above 7 In which venues have you made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Work groups Training (less than 10 people) Training (10 or more people) Other meeting formats with two or more people None of the above 8 I have experience in diagnosing, assessing, and developing psychological treatments for youth. Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).