Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following types of artifacts have you worked with in a museum setting (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Paintings (water color, oil, acrylic). Drawings, prints and works on paper. Photographs. Collage or mixed media art objects. Film. Audio or Video recordings. Electronic components. Sculpture. Installation art. Ceramics. Glass. Wood. Metalwork. Jewelry. Furniture. Textiles. Decorative arts. Historic artifacts. Books or manuscripts. Magazines, newspapers or other periodicals. Printed ephemera such as postcards, brochures or product information. Pop culture artifacts such as toys, comics, costumes or other consumer goods. None of the above. 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience with museum collections documentation Answer to this question is required I have assisted in a physical inventory by matching records with items I have independently matched records to items and have identified inconsistencies in the records I have independently matched records to items, identified inconsistencies, and resolved those inconsistencies I have no experience with collections documentation 4 Which items, from the following list of collections documentation practices, identifies duties that you have regularly performed in previous positions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed shelf surveys / inventories I have accurately recorded information using automated systems I have adhered to data standards for collections management I have assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records I have independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records I have assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records I have independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records I have no experience with collection documentation practices 5 Which of the following describes your knowledge of collection information management systems to include The Museum System (TMS)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used The Museum System (TMS) collections information management system and have performed data entry and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I am familiar with and have used other collections information management systems such as Vernon Systems (Vernon CMS) and/or KE Software (EMu Systems) I am familiar with database management software (e.g. MS SQL Server, my SQL, and MS Access) I am unfamiliar with collections information management systems and software. 6 Which of the following examples reflect your experience handling, storing, and packing museum objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience handling and storing 3-dimensional museum objects. I have experience handling and storing 2-dimensional museum objects including framed art. I have experience handling and storing textiles. I have made storage supports for 3-dimensional museum objects. I have made storage supports for 2-dimensional museum objects. I have packed museum objects for shipment. I have tracked the movement of museum objects using barcode scanners. I have tracked the movement of museum objects with paper records. I have participated in the installation and de-installation of large museum exhibits. I have training or education in storing museum objects. I have training or education in tracking museum objects. I have no experience or training in handling, storing, and packing museum objects. 7 Do you have experience performing collections management including object care, handling, exhibition development and installation, object movement and tracking, packing, shipping and storage, and inventory management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed regarding handling objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled museum objects for examination. I have crated or uncrated museum objects for transport or storage. I have designed handling museum apparatuses for objects. I have designed museum storage apparatuses for objects. I have handled large museum objects. I have used industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects. I have used common power and hand tools in a museum environment. I have no experience handling museum objects. 10 From the following list of collections management functions, standards, and practices, please identify all that you have expertise in performing: Answer to this question is required Monitoring security and environmental conditions and recognizing conservation and preservation concerns. Tracking objects and recording information on their movement and location. Handling and moving objects that have a wide range of materials, sizes, age, historical significance, and conditions. Setting up, organizing and maintaining collections storage spaces I do not have expertise with collections management functions, standards, and practices. 11 Which of the following object handling methods do you have experience working with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cleaning. Housing. Storing. I have no experience working with museum objects. 12 Which of the following answer best describes your experience in handling, lifting, and safe movement of museum collection materials?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience in creating standards for handling, documenting, conducting safe collections movement, and preparing collections for storage. I am an expert in this area. I have experience in following guidelines for collections handling, documenting, movement and storage. I have theoretical knowledge only, and no hands-on experience with, guidelines for collections handling, documenting, movement and storage. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience with basic preservation techniques for museum collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff members in the basic preservation techniques for archival collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have applied basic preservation techniques for archival collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have assisted in the application of basic preservation techniques for archival collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have no experience with the preservation of archival collections. 14 Which of the following exhibition collections management tasks do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled collections in exhibit staging areas. I have set up and maintained exhibition staging areas. I have reviewed exhibit and mount drawings for collections management concerns. I have handled objects including flat and mounted costumes (especially 19th and 20th century ball gowns), textiles, ceramics, glass, wood, metals, furniture, jewelry, graphics, and documents for mounting and installation. I have developed plans and processes for using collections during exhibition development. I have served as liaison for object information between designers, curators, and functional museum staff. I have led activities of interns and division staff working on exhibition collections management. I have maintained political history exhibitions and worked with needed staff to resolve problems. I have developed and maintained collections databases and other documentation. None of the above. 15 Do you have experience and/or training related to safe handling of tools and materials, and the disposal of hazardous material? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience, education, or training in maintaining pest management plans? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training maintaining pest management plans. I have completed formal education or training in maintaining pest management plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job I have maintained pest management plans on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have maintained pest management plans as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Maintaining pest management plans has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with insect pest control in museum collections? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience using freezing, pest monitor traps, and other methods to control museum pests in museum research collections. I have some experience using freezing, pest monitor traps, and other methods to control museum pests in museum research collections. I have had training in methods used to control museum pests in museum research collections. I have no experience using freezing, pests monitor traps, and other methods to control museum pests in museum research collections. 18 Do you have experience working with relative humidity meters? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following best represents your level of experience for monitoring and managing environmental controls for temperature and relative humidity levels in collections storage areas by monitoring levels, creating performance reports, and recommending system adjustments for implementation for alignment to acceptable levels for temperature and relative humidity levels? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing such tasks and have provided guidance and supervision to others. I have performed such tasks independently and without the review of a supervisor. I have performed such tasks under the direction of a supervisor or other employee. I have had training or education related to such tasks, but I have not performed them on-the-job. I have not had experience in performing such tasks. 20 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience making oral presentations Answer to this question is required Coworkers/Peers Grantees Contractors Senior level officials Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Professionals within my organization Professionals from outside my organization Members of the public Foreign visitors Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 21 Which of the following best represents your level of experience following instructions required to process museum or similar collections? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing such tasks and have provided guidance and supervision to others I have performed such tasks independently and without the review of a supervisor I have performed such tasks under the direction of a supervisor or other employee I have had training or education related to such tasks, but I have not performed them on the job I have not had experience in performing such tasks 22 Which of the following statements describe the types of work you have performed in a museum environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to a senior Museum Specialist. I have served as lead specialist on a museum-related project. I have supervised packaging, handling, and shipping from storage areas. I have supervised the handling of transfer items. I have overseen the storage and inventory of museum items. I have reviewed and updated museum collections records. I have no experience in performing this task. 23 Which of the following best describes your highest level of responsibility in preparing written work documents? Answer to this question is required I contributed small pieces (e.g., parts of report sections) for incorporation and review I contributed larger pieces (e.g., report sections) for incorporation and review I reviewed the work of other writers for appropriate content and format I reviewed the work of other writers and was responsible for portions of final documents None of the above 24 Which of the following software programs do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required The Museum System (TMS). Microsoft Word. Microsoft Outlook. Microsoft Excel. None of the above. 25 Which of the following computer software applications have you used as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Integrated office software (e.g., Corel office, MS Office). Environmental monitoring software (e.g., Climate Notebook). Document sharing software (e.g., Adobe Acrobat). Database management systems. Digital imaging software. Collections information systems (e.g., EMu, TMS). Internet browsers. Image management programs (e.g., Adobe Photoshop). Other common office software applications. I do not have experience with any common office software applications. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.