Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time-in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement; HOWEVER, I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, AND I was not previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least 52 weeks. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( I.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Health Services Assistants are required to orally convey technical and non-technical program information to his/her supervisor, co-workers, vendors, the general public, inmates, Central Office and Regional Office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding the Health Services Department operation. He/she must possess the ability to verbally communicate information understandable to the intended audience.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed supervisor or Department Head about work progress and assignment statuses; and/or I have explained general regulations or basic technical procedures to the general public or other employees (such as inmate visiting regulations); and/or I have conveyed basic technical information, such as answer routine questions from inmates about departmental procedures, open house hours, how to make sick call appointments, etc. I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group or committee; and/or I have relayed pertinent medical information and patient history from staff healthcare providers to community hospital staff; and/or I have contacted vendors by telephone to resolve discrepancies with government credit card statement. I have communicated non-technical information to others, such as respond to inmate inquiries; and/or I have contacted a vendor to gather information requested for a purchase; and/or I have given verbal order to inmate orderly; and/or I have assisted in presenting information to a small group. None of the above. 5 Health Services Assistants perform support services for the Health Services Department and work with Central Office, Regional personnel and institution department staff. They must prepare and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, write memorandums to management, etc. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have typed memorandums or other simple documents as dictated or instructed; and/or I have used computer software programs to perform spell check and grammar check before routing documents; and/or I have written incident report or supporting memorandum; and/or I have assisted in writing justifications and work statements for contracts. I have proofread documents for supervisor, correcting typing, format and grammar errors before routing; and/or I have transcribed complex documents, such as committee meeting minutes, letters, medical summaries and inmate emergency medical outside consultation referral requests, in the correct format with no grammatical or typing errors; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence from instruction. I have researched department's needs and written draft statements of work or major equipment justifications for cost center manager; and/or I have prepared non-routine letters, memorandums, and reports; and/or I have generated routine memorandums, such as weekly status reports and submitted them to supervisor without prompting or instructions. None of the above. 6 Health Services Assistants must collect, analyze and interpret information relative to the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected data and information from existing databases, such as fund control, before analyzing trends and reporting them to the cost center manager; and/or I have gathered information and completed routine reports, such as monthly consolidating reports in timely manner; and/or I have assisted the cost center manager in reviewing last year's financial data and analyzed current patient outside medical care trends to determine the department's budget needs for next fiscal year as directed. I have analyzed basic financial information, such as reviewed general ledger accounts for proper balances; and/or I have prepared monthly proof checks and 224 submission; and/or I have corrected statement of differences in Treasury; and/or I have assisted in making analytical comparisons to prior monthly and/or yearly requirements for major reports. I have entered information into fund control and other existing databases and schedules in a timely manner; and/or I have assisted in gathering information and completing routine reports, such as monthly consolidating reports; and/or I have assisted in collecting data from existing files and databases, such as fund control, for the cost center manager as directed. None of the above. 7 Health Services Assistants must interpret and apply financial policies, procedures and guidelines while performing assignments dealing with departmental budgetary information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in year-end obligation review following referenced Audit Guidance Memorandums; and/or I have used referenced accounting policies to complete routine accounting tasks, such as assisted in maintaining open voucher files following Bureau Accounting policy; and/or I have keyed expenditures and issued fund control numbers for credit card requests and requests for purchases. I have followed instructions to apply accounting policies and procedures, such as compiling and examining reports to confirm transactions were accepted into the system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly into the system under supervision. I have applied basic policies, guidelines, and procedures, such as Federal Acquisition Register and Bureau accounting policy to make departmental purchases; and/or I have reviewed travel vouchers for accuracy according to Travel Regulations; and/or I have followed Bureau policy to determine what items are needed to pay a bill. None of the above. 8 Health Services Assistants organize and maintain records and filing systems within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established new file folder, such as a supply vendor file or patient record, with labels and section tabs; and/or I have purged and destroyed old files according to Bureau policy; and/or I have added new information and documents to files as it was received; and/or I have pulled health records for patient appointments or pulled financial records for cost center manager. I have tracked individual files removed from the system using a log book or computer tracking system; and/or I have audited credit card statements for accuracy and resolved discrepancies before filing; and/or I have maintained established case or patient files, added topics/files as needed. I have processed and maintained financial document files such as invoices, vendor files, budget reports from Financial Management, Inmate Performance Pay, and electronic fund control files; and/or I have created tracking systems to record when files are checked out (tracking systems may be hard copy or computerized); and/or I have established and maintained complex files, such as processing contractor background checks, staff time & attendance files or accounts payable files with accurate, up-to-date information. None of the above. 9 Health Services Assistants must be skilled in using personal computers to effectively perform the assigned duties within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed department's financial data into existing spreadsheet database; and/or I have replaced toner, replaced paper and performed routine user maintenance for copy machines and facsimile machines; and/or I have used dictation machine to type meeting minutes. I have set or reset date and time on office equipment, such as facsimile machine; and/or I have re-sorted financial data or patient data in existing spreadsheet database to analyze trends; and/or I have troubleshot and solved minor problems with a copy machine, such as paper jams; and/or I have experience using advanced editing features and tools when using word processing programs, such as Microsoft Word. I have keyed/entered data into existing PDF files to complete forms; and/or I have faxed and photocopied items as requested; and/or I have typed memorandums and letters using word processing programs, such as Microsoft Word; and/or I have demonstrated ability to scan, label and store documents electronically. None of the above. Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet the Time- in-Grade requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-06 grade level, in a single-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/6/7 job), and will not be at the GS/GL-06 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. However, I was previously a GS/GL-05 for a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and will be at the GS/GL-05 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-06 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement because I am below the GS/GL-05 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. I was previously at the GS/GL-06 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 grade level, in a two-grade interval position (i.e., a 5/7/9 job), and was at the GS/GL-05 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-05 or GS/GL-06 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-05. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum). Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-07 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-07, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-07 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-07 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-07, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-06 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-07 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-07 level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-07 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Health Services Assistants are required to orally convey technical and non-technical program information to his/her supervisor, co-workers, vendors, the general public, inmates, Central Office and Regional Office staff. Verbal contacts are made for the purpose of obtaining and exchanging pertinent information regarding the Health Services Department operation. He/she must possess the ability to verbally communicate information understandable to the intended audience. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated with vendors to request information, such as bids for office equipment; and/or I have coordinated with staff and healthcare professionals to schedule inmate medical appointments; and/or I have answered questions from the general public, following Freedom of Information Act, Privacy Act, and Bureau policy. I have briefed supervisor or Department Head about my work progress and assignment statuses; and/or I have explained general regulations or basic technical procedures to the general public or other employees (such as inmate visiting regulations); and/or I have conveyed basic technical information, such as answer routine questions from inmates about departmental procedures, open house hours, how to make sick call appointments, etc. I have given an oral presentation on the status of a project to a small group or committee; and/or I have relayed pertinent medical information and patient history from staff healthcare providers to community hospital staff; and/or I have contacted vendors by telephone to resolve discrepancies with government credit card statement. None of the above. 5 Health Services Assistants perform support services for the Health Services Department and work with Central Office, Regional personnel and institution department staff. They must prepare and submit monthly reports, prepare budget information, write memorandums to management, etc. To effectively accomplish the requirements of this position, he/she must possess strong written communication skills to clearly and concisely convey information to a variety of internal and external sources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched department's needs and written draft statements of work or major equipment justifications for cost center manager; and/or I have prepared non-routine letters, memorandums, and reports; and/or I have generated routine memorandums, such as weekly status reports and submitted them to supervisor without prompting or instructions. I have proofread documents for supervisor, correcting typing, format and grammar errors before routing; and/or I have transcribed complex documents, such as committee meeting minutes, letters, medical summaries and inmate emergency medical outside consultation referral requests, in the correct format with no grammatical or typing errors; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence from instruction. I have reviewed written work of coworkers for grammar, content and format; and/or I have written memorandums and letters for supervisor's signature with only vague verbal base instructions; and/or I have written technical reports and correspondence that summarize financial or budget data, including spending trends; and/or I have developed and written internal office procedures. None of the above. 6 Health Services Assistants must collect, analyze and interpret information relative to the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected data and information from existing databases, such as fund control, before analyzing trends and reporting them to the cost center manager; and/or I have gathered information and completed routine reports, such as monthly consolidating reports in timely manner; and/or I have assisted the cost center manager in reviewing last year's financial data and analyzed current patient outside medical care trends to determine the department's budget needs for next fiscal year as directed. I have entered information into fund control and other existing databases and schedules in a timely manner; and/or I have assisted in gathering information and completing routine reports, such as monthly consolidating reports; and/or I have assisted in collecting data from existing files and databases, such as fund control, for the cost center manager as directed. I have created a new database to collect and analyze financial/budgeting information that allows quicker access to the information or track information in new ways that improve the efficiency of the department; and/or I have reviewed last year's financial data and analyzed current patient outside and/or inside medical care trends to determine the department's budget needs for the upcoming fiscal year; and/or I have analyzed financial data and notified cost center manager of changes in spending trends as they arise. None of the above. 7 Health Services Assistants must interpret and apply financial policies, procedures and guidelines while performing assignments dealing with departmental budgetary information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied basic policies, guidelines, and procedures, such as Federal Acquisition Register and Bureau accounting policy to make departmental purchases; and/or I have reviewed travel vouchers for accuracy according to Travel Regulations; and/or I have followed Bureau policy to determine what items are needed to pay a bill. I have followed instructions to apply accounting policies and procedures, such as compiling and examining reports to confirm transactions were accepted into the system; and/or I have proofread figures on disbursement documents; and/or I have corrected accounting data that was keyed incorrectly into the system under supervision. I have drawn conclusions based on financial information, such as reconciled and resolved general ledger discrepancies; and/or I have reconciled inmate payroll; and/or I have served as team leader in conducting an annual physical inventory. None of the above. 8 Health Services Assistants organize and maintain records and filing systems within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have tracked individual files removed from the system using a log book or computer tracking system; and/or I have audited credit card statements for accuracy and resolved discrepancies before filing; and/or I have maintained established case or patient files, adding topics/files as needed. I have processed and maintained financial document files such as invoices, vendor files, budget reports from Financial Management, Inmate Performance Pay, and electronic fund control files; and/or I have created tracking systems to record when files are checked out (tracking systems may be hard copy or computerized); and/or I have established and maintained complex files, such as processing contractor background checks, staff time & attendance files or accounts payable files with accurate, up-to-date information. I have audited complex records, such as patient health records, for completeness and for accuracy of filing order; and/or I have created a new filing system or database that allows quicker access to information in files; and/or I have organized and maintained concise obligation records in a manner which allowed the information to be easily retrieved; and/or I have established, organized and maintained record and filing systems. None of the above. 9 Health Services Assistants must be skilled in using personal computers to effectively perform the assigned duties within the Health Services Department. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have set or reset date and time on office equipment, such as facsimile machine; and/or I have re-sorted financial data or patient data in existing spreadsheet database to analyze trends; and/or I have troubleshot and solved minor problems with a copy machine, such as paper jams; and/or I have experience using advanced editing features and tools when using word processing programs, such as Microsoft Word. I have used Microsoft Access, Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet program to create new databases to track cost center and other financial information for the department; and/or I have used Microsoft Word, another word processing program or Adobe to create a form to be used by other staff; and/or I have converted non-.pdf documents to .pdf documents that can be uploaded into computer software systems. I have keyed department's financial data into existing spreadsheet database; and/or I have replaced toner, replaced paper and performed routine user maintenance for copy machines and facsimile machines; and/or I have used dictation machine to type meeting minutes. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).