Position Title
Electrician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12782981-25-BT Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 25, 2025 to Tuesday, September 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your ability to perform the duties of the position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your answers are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of your knowledge or skills as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please select only one letter for each item.
1. (Screen Out) From the descriptions below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes the highest level of experience that you possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of an Electrician without more than normal supervision (refer to the Duties section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information) which includes experience including but not limited to: works from building plans, wiring diagrams, and engineering drawings; plans and lays out the routing, placement, and arrangement of industrial or similarly complex systems, circuits, controls, and equipment; determines installations and repairs including such considerations as the types, sizes, gauges, and lay out of conduit, wiring, couplings, fittings, relays, controls, and distribution panels, and other electrical devices used in a variety of complete electrical systems and the best methods of installation and repair; completes installations, modifications, and repairs, and load and test systems, circuits, equipment, and controls with little or no supervisory review during the progress or upon completion of work; and work meets accepted trade standards, and is completed in a timely manner. NOTE: Your resume must support the description selected by detailed documentation of the duties you have performed, in positions you have held and/or training you have successfully completed. This is a Screen-Out Element. Failure to meet a minimum level will result in an ineligible rating. Select only ONE letter.

 A. I have experience as a Journeyman Electrician, which demonstrates that I possess expert and extensive experience installing, repairing, modifying, troubleshooting, loading and testing new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures and controls, automatic transfer switches, transformers, large motors, switchgear, light fixtures, controls, etc. I have performed the following duties, including complex projects: Diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing, and maintaining a variety of electrical devices, equipment, and components, i.e., transformer, generators, motors, etc. In addition, I have sufficient knowledge to assist, train or instruct subordinates, and plan and coordinate work to be done. I work from building plans, blueprints, wiring diagrams, engineering drawings and electrical maintenance and repair manuals to plan and lay out the routing, placement, type, size, gauge, balance load, continuity and proper safe operation of electrical lines, circuit systems, equipment and controls. I install, modify, repair, load and test systems, circuits, and devices such as those described above. I performed these duties independently, using my own judgment and decisions to accomplish the work. I required limited, if any, technical guidance, including complex projects, from a supervisor.
 B. I have experience as a Journeyman Electrician, or have experience in another related field, which demonstrates that I possess expert experience installing, repairing, modifying, troubleshooting, loading and testing new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures and controls. I have performed the following duties, including difficult projects: Diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing, and maintaining a variety of electrical devices, equipment, and components. I performed these duties independently and only required technical guidance from a supervisor on complex tasks or projects.
 C. I have experience as an Electrician, or have experience in another related field, which demonstrates that I possess experience installing, repairing, modifying, troubleshooting, loading and testing new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, fixtures and controls. I have performed the following duties: Diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing, and maintaining a variety of electrical devices, equipment, and components. I have assisted a Journeyman Electrician on more complex tasks and projects. I performed these duties under normal supervision.
 D. I have experience and/or training history, which demonstrates I possess a basic knowledge of the electrical trade. I have some experience, which shows I have the potential to perform the full range of the electrical trade, adequately handling priorities and meeting schedules and deadlines with supervision.
 E. I have the ability to learn the work of the position with training and under supervision.
 F. I meet none of the above
The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected