Position Title
Wildland Firefighter - Apprentice
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-FIRE-P1R2389-WFAP-345DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
3. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Search 
No matches found
Andalusia, AL
Brent, AL
Heflin, AL
Moulton, AL
Talladega, AL
Hector, AR
Jessieville, AR
Mena, AR
Mount Ida, AR
Mountain View, AR
Ozark, AR
Waldron, AR
Boulder, CO
Buffalo Creek, CO
Canon City, CO
Collbran, CO
Eagle, CO
Fort Collins, CO
Granby, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Idaho Springs, CO
La Jara, CO
Lake George, CO
Monte Vista, CO
Monument, CO
Nederland, CO
Pueblo, CO
Red Feather Lakes, CO
Rifle, CO
Saguache, CO
Salida, CO
Shawnee, CO
Silverthorne, CO
Steamboat Springs, CO
Walden, CO
Woodland Park, CO
Yampa, CO
Altoona, FL
Bristol, FL
Olustee, FL
Silver Springs, FL
Tallahassee, FL
Blairsville, GA
Chatsworth, GA
Eatonton, GA
Gainesville, GA
Lakemont, GA
Murphysboro, IL
Vienna, IL
Wilmington, IL
Bedford, IN
Tell City, IN
Big Creek, KY
Frenchburg, KY
Golden Pond, KY
London, KY
Mammoth Cave, KY
Morehead, KY
Whitley City, KY
Bentley, LA
Boyce, LA
Leesville, LA
Provencal, LA
Winnfield, LA
Baldwin, MI
Mio, MI
Munising, MI
Oscoda, MI
Raco, MI
Rapid River, MI
Saint Ignace, MI
Watersmeet, MI
Wellston, MI
Aurora, MN
Blackduck, MN
Cook, MN
Deer River, MN
Ely, MN
Grand Marais, MN
Tofte, MN
Walker, MN
Ackerman, MS
Brooklyn, MS
Forest, MS
McHenry, MS
Meadville, MS
Ovett, MS
Potts Camp, MS
Ava, MO
Cassville, MO
Doniphan, MO
Houston, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Potosi, MO
Puxico, MO
Salem, MO
Chadron, NE
Halsey, NE
Campton, NH
Cherokee, NC
Franklin, NC
Murphy, NC
Nebo, NC
Pisgah Forest, NC
Robbinsville, NC
Nelsonville, OH
Pedro, OH
Broken Bow, OK
Hodgen, OK
Glide, OR
Yachats, OR
Warren, PA
Edgefield, SC
Huger, SC
Mountain Rest, SC
New Ellenton, SC
Whitmire, SC
Custer, SD
Fort Pierre, SD
Hill City, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Nemo, SD
Rapid City, SD
Spearfish, SD
Wall, SD
Benton, TN
Bristol, TN
Greeneville, TN
Tellico Plains, TN
Unicoi, TN
Decatur, TX
South Weber, UT
Manchester Center, VT
Augusta Springs, VA
Blacksburg, VA
Buena Vista, VA
Coeburn, VA
Covington, VA
Edinburg, VA
Harrisonburg, VA
Norton, VA
Sugar Grove, VA
Wise, VA
Curlew, WA
Moses Lake, WA
Elkins, WV
Harpers Ferry, WV
Parsons, WV
Petersburg, WV
White Sulphur Springs, WV
Florence, WI
Laona, WI
Park Falls, WI
Washburn, WI
Buffalo, WY
Cody, WY
Douglas, WY
Dubois, WY
Greybull, WY
Lander, WY
Laramie, WY
Newcastle, WY
Saratoga, WY
Sheridan, WY
Sundance, WY
4. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.

The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
6. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
10. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your eligibility for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. THE RESUME AND APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM.
1. For the GW-05 grade level, have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirement of Firefighter 1 (FFT1)? A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement must be attached to the application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GW-03 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Apprentice) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have 6 months of general experience. General experience includes any type of work that demonstrates the applicant’s ability to perform the work of a Wildland Firefighter, or general experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter or processes of the broad subject area of the Wildland Firefighter occupation. Examples of general experience include: Performed farm/ranch labor, such as feeding and tending livestock or general maintenance of farm/ranch facilities; Worked in a greenhouse or nursery moving, watering, and tending plants and performing other general labor tasks; Fed and watered animals, such as in a laboratory, pet store, or zoo; Any work experience, paid or unpaid. Unpaid experience, for example, may be regular volunteer work, such as at a park, community sports league facilities, etc.type of work that demonstrates the applicant’s ability to perform the work of a Wildland Firefighter, or general experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter or processes of the broad subject area of the Wildland Firefighter occupation. Examples of general experience include: Performed farm/ranch labor, such as feeding and tending livestock or general maintenance of farm/ranch facilities; Worked in a greenhouse or nursery moving, watering, and tending plants and performing other general labor tasks; Fed and watered animals, such as in a laboratory, pet store, or zoo; Any work experience, paid or unpaid. Unpaid experience, for example, may be regular volunteer work, such as at a park, community sports league facilities, etc.
 B. Successful completion of a one (1)-year of related education or appropriate firefighting training may be substituted for experience on a month-for-month basis. Firefighting training obtained as part of a high school curriculum-may be substituted for the six (6) months of general experience.appropriate firefighting training may be substituted for experience on a month-for-month basis. Firefighting training obtained as part of a high school curriculum-may be substituted for the six (6) months of general experience.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience.
 D. I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.
3. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GW-04 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Apprentice) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 A. I have 6 months of general experience AND 6 months of specialized experience to at least the GW-03. Examples of general experience include: Performed farm/ranch labor, such as feeding/tending livestock or general maintenance of farm/ranch facilities and/or worked in a greenhouse, nursery or landscaping e.g., planting, moving, watering, and tending plants and/or animal caretaker in a laboratory, zoo or pet store and/or volunteer work at a park, hospital, community sports league, local fire department, etc. Examples of specialized experience include: Performed natural resource support work, e.g., forestry, range, park technician, wildland firefighter, or similar jobs; performed routine support assignments in a forestry specialty area, e.g., wilderness, timber, fire prevention/control, etc.
 B. Successful completion of a two (2)-year course of study in an accredited college or university in Fire Training, Fire Science, Fire Technology or other related fields of study.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience.
 D. I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.
4. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GW-05 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Apprentice) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-04 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Patrolled areas of controlled fires to mop-up by searching out and extinguishing any remaining burning material; Served on a specialty crew (hotshot, helitack, engines, etc.) to suppress the full range of difficult and complex fires; Operated specialized fire suppression equipment such as portable pumps or drip torches.
 B. Successful completion of a 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university with major study in Fire Science, Fire Training, Fire Technology or other related fields of study.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements described above.
5. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected