Position Title
Supervisory Wildland Firefighter - Fire Engine Operation
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-FIRE-P1R14610-SFEOH-78DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Search 
No matches found
Juneau, AK
Moose Pass, AK
Thorne Bay, AK
Bridgeport, CA
Topaz, CA
Ashton, ID
Avery, ID
Bonners Ferry, ID
Burley, ID
Cascade, ID
Challis, ID
Clayton, ID
Coeur d'Alene, ID
Council, ID
Driggs, ID
Dubois, ID
Elk City, ID
Fairfield, ID
Garden Valley, ID
Grangeville, ID
Idaho City, ID
Island Park, ID
Ketchum, ID
Kooskia, ID
Lowman, ID
Mackay, ID
Malad City, ID
McCall, ID
Montpelier, ID
Mountain Home, ID
New Meadows, ID
Nordman, ID
Orofino, ID
Pocatello, ID
Potlatch, ID
Saint Maries, ID
Salmon, ID
Sandpoint, ID
Smelterville, ID
Stanley, ID
Swan Valley, ID
Weiser, ID
White Bird, ID
Ashland, MT
Augusta, MT
Big Timber, MT
Bigfork, MT
Bozeman, MT
Butte, MT
Choteau, MT
Darby, MT
Dillon, MT
Ennis, MT
Eureka, MT
Gardiner, MT
Harlowton, MT
Helena, MT
Hungry Horse, MT
Huson, MT
Kalispell, MT
Libby, MT
Lincoln, MT
Livingston, MT
Missoula, MT
Neihart, MT
Philipsburg, MT
Plains, MT
Red Lodge, MT
Seeley Lake, MT
Stevensville, MT
Sula, MT
Superior, MT
Townsend, MT
Trout Creek, MT
Troy, MT
West Yellowstone, MT
White Sulphur Springs, MT
Whitehall, MT
Wisdom, MT
Wise River, MT
Austin, NV
Carson City, NV
Elko, NV
Ely, NV
Las Vegas, NV
Dickinson, ND
Watford City, ND
Alsea, OR
Baker City, OR
Bend, OR
Bly, OR
Butte Falls, OR
Cascade Locks, OR
Cave Junction, OR
Chemult, OR
Chiloquin, OR
Crescent, OR
Detroit, OR
Dufur, OR
Enterprise, OR
Estacada, OR
Glide, OR
Gold Beach, OR
Halfway, OR
Heppner, OR
Hines, OR
Hood River, OR
Idleyld Park, OR
Jacksonville, OR
John Day, OR
Klamath Falls, OR
La Grande, OR
Lakeview, OR
McKenzie Bridge, OR
Paisley, OR
Parkdale, OR
Powers, OR
Prairie City, OR
Prineville, OR
Reedsport, OR
Roseburg, OR
Sandy, OR
Silver Lake, OR
Sisters, OR
Tiller, OR
Ukiah, OR
Waldport, OR
Westfir, OR
Yachats, OR
Zigzag, OR
Beaver, UT
Cedar City, UT
Duchesne, UT
Dutch John, UT
Ephraim, UT
Escalante, UT
Fillmore, UT
Heber City, UT
Logan, UT
Moab, UT
Monticello, UT
Panguitch, UT
Pleasant Grove, UT
Price, UT
Richfield, UT
Saint George, UT
Salt Lake City, UT
South Weber, UT
Spanish Fork, UT
Teasdale, UT
Vernal, UT
Chelan, WA
Cle Elum, WA
Concrete, WA
Entiat, WA
Hoodsport, WA
Kettle Falls, WA
Leavenworth, WA
Naches, WA
Newport, WA
North Bend, WA
Pomeroy, WA
Quilcene, WA
Republic, WA
Tonasket, WA
Trout Lake, WA
Walla Walla, WA
Winthrop, WA
Afton, WY
Jackson, WY
Kemmerer, WY
Mountain View, WY
Pinedale, WY
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.

The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
4. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your eligibility for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. THE RESUME AND APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM.
1. Have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirement of Engine Boss (ENGB) and successfully completed the Secondary NWCG Core Requirement of Incident Commander Type 4 (ICT4)? A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement must be attached to the application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience for the GW-07 level of this GW-0456 Supervisory Wildland Firefighter - Fire Engine Operation position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-06 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Evaluated initial fire situations to determine suppression method to use, hose lays, deployment of crew, point of initial attack, type of tools to use, and application of water; Communicated with dispatcher and superiors on the progress on fire situation requesting additional resources when applicable; Demonstrated safety practices relative to all-hazard incident management involving crews, resources, and equipment; Served as a working leader on a wildland fire engine; Directing others and provided leadership in wildland fire operations including prescribed fire.
 B. I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.
3. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience for the GW-08 level of this GW-0456 Supervisory Wildland Firefighter - Fire Engine Operation position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-07 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Operated and maintained pump engine and specialized equipment used to respond to wildland and prescribed fire situations; Assisted with search and rescue incidents, victim recoveries, automobile accidents, and hazardous materials incidents during local responses involving multi-jurisdictional and multi-agency co-operators; Served as Initial Attack Incident Commander on wildland and/or urban interface and all-hazard incidents; Directed project work in support of ecosystem management such as prescribed fire, including development of burn plans.
 B. I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.
4. Demonstrate a commitment to fostering and promoting an equitable, inclusive, and safe work environment.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received education or training on this task but have no experience.
 C. I practice behaviors that support this task. When I observe behaviors that are not in alignment with this task, I follow established protocols.
 D. I promote and model behaviors in support of this task to foster a positive work environment.
 E. I promote and model behaviors in support of this task and set the tone for creating a positive work environment. I educate others on expectations and procedures in support of this task.
5. Promote an inclusive work environment that is free from all types of discrimination.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received education or training on this task but have no experience.
 C. I practice behaviors that support this task. When I observe behaviors that are not in alignment with this task, I follow established protocols.
 D. I promote and model behaviors in support of this task to foster a positive work environment.
 E. I promote and model behaviors in support of this task and set the tone for creating a positive work environment. I educate others on expectations and procedures in support of this task.
6. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected