Position Title
Lead CBP Technician
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12798397-KMA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question(s) will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes inspecting, gathering, and recording information concerning persons, cargo, conveyances, merchandise, mail, and other miscellaneous items in accordance with established guidelines under supervision and guidance; collecting, transporting, and destroying contraband; conducting real-time monitoring of area and reviewing archived video footage and preparing video archive requests; assisting CBPOs with narcotic seizures and seizures of other illegal items to the extent allowed by law; assisting with vehicle inspection and valuation in support of officers; preparing reports and correspondence for importing public and/or chain of command and responds to routine inquiries; supporting the inspection of vessels, aircraft, conveyances, passengers, and pedestrian for the presence of restricted or prohibited products.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of cargo and merchandise.

 A. I have no knowledge of these rules, regulations, laws, or procedures.
 B. I have a basic understanding of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of cargo and merchandise, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I have a working knowledge of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of cargo and merchandise. I have applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 D. I have expert knowledge of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of cargo and merchandise. I stay current with any changes to the rules and regulations and apply them in a work setting.
3. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of passengers and baggage.

 A. I have no knowledge of these rules, regulations, laws, or procedures.
 B. I have a basic understanding of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of passengers and baggage, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I have a working knowledge of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of passengers and baggage. I have applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 D. I have expert knowledge of CBP rules, regulations, laws, and procedures related to the processing of passengers and baggage. I stay current with any changes to the rules and regulations and apply them in a work setting.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience using automated data systems (e.g., the Automated Commercial System, ACS).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or more senior individual, I have entered data into an automated data system (e.g., ACS).
 C. I have independently entered data into an automated data system (e.g., ACS).
 D. I have entered data and generated automated and special reports using an automated data system (e.g., ACS). I have trained others on the use of these systems.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience processing warehouse withdrawals.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or more senior individual, I have completed the administrative actions required for processing warehouse withdrawals.
 C. I have independently processed warehouse withdrawals from start to finish.
 D. I have been responsible for approving and processing or rejecting warehouse withdrawals.
6. Do you have experience examining cargo/merchandise or passenger baggage to ensure it matches the relevant declaration or invoice?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Indicate the extent of your experience operating scanning equipment to review contents of packages.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the operation of scanning equipment to review contents of packages.
 C. I have independently operated scanning equipment to review contents of packages.
 D. I have trained others on how to operate scanning equipment to review contents of packages.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in assembling documentation in accordance with instructions, procedures, or guidelines.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assembled routine documentation (for example, references for a research paper) in accordance with instructions, procedures, or guidelines.
 C. I have assembled complex documentation (for example, legal documents, chain of custody forms) in accordance with instructions, procedures, or guidelines.
9. Indicate the extent to which you have had experience locating and gathering information from various sources.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience locating and gathering information from reference sources (for example, library materials, or the Internet) for academic assignments.
 C. I have had experience locating and gathering information for academic assignments and for work settings, using a variety of sources (for example, reference materials, files, records, databases, reports, or the Internet).
10. Identify the extent to which you have established and maintained files and filing systems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in maintaining files or filing systems but have not performed this task on the job.
 C. I have used an established filing system to organize and maintain material.
 D. I have designed or created new filing systems and I have reviewed and identified files for archiving, retirement, or destruction.
11. Indicate the extent to which you have provided administrative or technical office support.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have scheduled appointments for my supervisor or maintained my supervisor’s calendar.
 C. I have conducted inventory for my office and completed payroll for office staff, supervisor(s), or small work groups.
 D. I have conducted inventory and assisted in various audits for my office and have coordinated payroll, meetings, or travel arrancements for large work groups, supervisors, or upper level management.
12. Select the statement that best describes how you have typically planned and organized your work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed a schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by and monitored by my supervisor.
 C. I have set short-term goals and priorities for my own work to ensure that deadlines were met.
 D. I have set short- and long-term goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
 E. I have set project requirements and short- and long-term priorities for a work team, developed strategies to achieve goals, and coordinated work requirements, resources, and personnel (within the team).
13. Select the choice that best describes your experience in working in or leading work-related teams.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines, and evaluated individual team member performance.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring the security of information, records, and other documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received basic training in this area and have been responsible for ensuring the security of information, records, and documents in accordance with prescribed procedures.
 C. I have extensive knowledge of the procedures for safeguarding sensitive information, records, and documents and have provided guidance and direction to others in this area.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected