Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12788404-25-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizenship:
Citizen of the United States. After a determination is made that it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens, necessary personnel may be appointed on a temporary basis under authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405 without regard to the citizenship requirements of 38 U.S.C. 7402 or any other law prohibiting the employment of or payment of compensation to a person who is not a citizen of the United States. Candidates must meet all other requirements for the grade and position concerned.

Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. English Language Proficiency: Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Certification: Candidates must meet one of the certification options below or :
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).

Exception for Non-Certified:
Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by the VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of 4 the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2).

Select your certification option from the multiple choices below.
 A. Yes, I currently possess the appropriate Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 B. Yes, I currently possess the appropriate Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 C. Yes, I currently possess the appropriate Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT..
 D. I am applying under the exception listed above and acknowledge that if I am selected for the position I understand that the failure to obtain certification during this time period may result in separation from employment.
 E. No, I do not currently possess the appropriate certification as a MT, MLS, or Categorical Certification given by the ASCP-BOC, ASCP-BOR, or AMT and do not plan to get the certification.
Grandfathering Provision: Employees in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Education: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university is required for this position.

Do you hold a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred: 
5. Foreign Graduates: Foreign Education - To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.

Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:
Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
OR
The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.
Select the response that reflects your foreign education.
NOTE: Possession of a certification identified in 4c above automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.
 A. I possess a letter from a college or university with a baccalaureate program recognized by the NAACLS stating that my foreign degree has been evaluated and been found to be equivalent to a clinical laboratory science degree program.
 B. I possess a letter from ASCP-BOC or AMT stating that the I am eligible to take the certification examination.
 C. Not Applicable.
 D. I am a foreign graduate, but I do not possess the appropriate documentation and understand that I will not qualify for the position without it.
5a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. GS-7 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-9 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience/Education:
Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience: 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07).
OR
Education: Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
Do you possess the experience or education specified above?
 A. Yes, I have at least 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07).
 B. Yes, I have a Masters degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. No, I do not meet the education or experience criteria for the Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. GS-9 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

Are you able to demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities specified above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. GS-11 Experience/Education: Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience: 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09).
OR
Education: Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.

Do you possess the experience or education specified above?
 A. Yes, I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09).
 B. Yes, I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. No, I do not meet the experience or education requirements listed in the criteria above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
Are you able to demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities specified above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected