Position Title
Lead Transportation Security Officer
Agency
Transportation Security Administration
Announcement Number
ANC-25-084424-12763048-I Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Thursday, July 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Displaced Employee?  To be eligible you must meet one or more of the following:
A current (OR former) employee of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) who will be (OR has been) separated through TSA involuntary workforce reduction (IWR) procedures AND I am eligible to be considered for TSA positions for all areas of consideration, for up to one year after the effective date of my involuntary separation; 
A former TSA Transportation Security Officer (TSO) eligible for rehiring priority under the Priority Employment Program (PEP);
An applicant for a Transportation Security Officer (TSO) position who has had my enter-on-duty (EOD) date delayed or offer rescinded due to a workforce reduction or anticipated reduction eligible for priority consideration under the Priority Employment Program (PEP).
If you indicate eligibility for priority consideration and exemption from Area of Consideration restrictions, you must submit a copy of the official notification that supports the eligibility at the time of application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA)?

As a current TSA employee, you are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your most recent non-Award Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your status.

TSA employees who do not submit the SF-50 with their application must document their current TSA position in their resume and may be required to provide the SF-50 document during the selection process.  TSA employees may obtain a copy of their most recent non-Award SF-50 at https://eopf.opm.gov/dhs/.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Referred applicants may be shared with other locations within TSA. Do you authorize the sharing of your name and application materials with other locations? If you respond "No", your name and application materials may only be shared for the position and locations on this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
How did you hear about this opportunity?
1. Please let us know how you heard about this opportunity.
--Select-- 
--Select--
Airport ad
Billboard ad
Career center
Digital banner ad
Email
Facebook
Flyer
Gas station TV ad
Google search
Gym TV ad
Instagram
Job board (e.g. Indeed, ZipRecruiter, LinkedIn, etc.)
Job Fair
LinkedIn
Local TV ad
Magazine ad
News
Newspaper ad
Other streaming or online video ad
Professional organization (e.g. LULAC, NOBLE, SHRM, etc.)
Public transit ad
Radio ad
Referral
Shopping mall ad
Streaming radio ad
Text message
TSA postcard
Twitter
USAJOBS Search or E-mail
VA for VETs, TAP or other military/veteran program
YouTube video ad
None of the Above
Suitability and Conditions of Employment
1. Please indicate whether or not you have been convicted* of any of the offenses listed within the past 10 years. (Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position.)

*You have a conviction if you plead no contest (nolo contendere), plead guilty, were found guilty, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, to any of the listed disqualifying offenses. The only exceptions are if your guilty plea or conviction has been reversed on appeal, your conviction has been expunged, or you have been pardoned.
Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violations.
Interference with air navigation.
Improper transportation of hazardous material.
Aircraft piracy.
Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants.
Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight.
Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft.
Conveying false information and threats.
Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States.
Lighting violation involving transporting controlled substances. Essentially, this means that if you have been convicted of transporting illegal drugs in a plane without activating the navigation or anti-collision lights you are disqualified.
Unlawful entry into an aircraft area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements.
Destruction of an aircraft or either a domestic or international aircraft facility. It is a federal crime to use any device, substance or weapon, to intentionally perform an act of violence against any person at an airport or to destroy or seriously damage the facilities of such an airport.
Murder.
Assault with intent to murder.
Espionage.
Sedition (inciting insurrection against lawful authority).
Kidnapping or hostage taking.
Treason.
Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.
Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.
Extortion.
Armed or felony armed robbery.
Distribution of, or intent to distribute a controlled substance.
Felony arson.
Felony involving a threat.
Felony involving willful destruction of property.
Felony involving importation or manufacture of a controlled substance.
Felony involving burglary.
Felony involving theft.
Felony involving dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation.
Felony involving possession or distribution of stolen property.
Felony involving aggravated assault.
Felony involving bribery.
Felony involving illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year, or any other crime classified as a felony that the Under Secretary determines indicates a propensity for placing contraband aboard an aircraft in return for money.
Violence at international airports.
Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed above.
Interference with security screening personnel.
 A. Yes, I have been convicted* of one or more of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
 B. No, I have not been convicted* of any of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
All the information you provide may be verified by a review of the work experience and/or education as shown on your application form, by checking references and through other means, such as the interview process. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.
2. Does the TSA employ any of your relatives?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Please respond whether or not you have been separated (e.g., terminated, removed, or resigned while a proposed termination or removal was pending) from TSA for any of the following reasons within the last three years.

Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position
3. Were you separated due to unacceptable performance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Were you separated due to misconduct?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Were you separated due to receiving a negative suitability determination from the Personnel Security Division?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Did you resign after receiving a proposed removal letter?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Requirements
1.

I understand that my Resume must include the following or I may be found ineligible for consideration:

Narrative description of duties for each job entry with start and end dates, including month and year (i.e. 8/2023 - 8/2024 or 8/2024 - present) for work experience.
Number of hours worked in a position (i.e., full-time or part-time) for each job entry. If part-time, state the total number of hours worked per week.
Performance level for federal civilian positions which include pay band, series and grade (i.e. SV-1801-I) for each job entry.
Utilizing the USAJOBS Resume Builder and completing all available fields is strongly encouraged.
 A. Yes, I understand my resume must include the above information and I wish to continue with my application.
 B. I no longer want to continue with my application.
LTSO Sex
1. You must provide information regarding your sex. The duties of this position involve touching and patting down the bodies of airline passengers. Due to privacy interests and the sensitive nature of these duties, the TSA requires a same-sex pat-down of passengers. Accordingly, TSA must ensure that it employs a certain ratio of male and female TSOs to perform passenger screening.
 A. Male
 B. Female
Assessment 1
Please answer all of the questions listed below. Errors or omissions may affect your consideration for employment. Remember that your experience is subject to verification. Your responses to these statements will be scored and the score you receive will be used as a measure of the degree to which your background matches the qualifications and competencies required for this job. In responding to these questions, you should carefully consider each of these statements and choose the response that best matches your experience level. Your resume must support your self-ratings.

PLEASE NOTE: Your self-ratings will be reviewed. If, after reviewing your resume and any supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have rated yourself higher than is supported by your application materials, your category placement may be adjusted and/or you may be excluded from consideration for this job.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least one year of full-time equivalent work experience as a Transportation Security Officer, SV-1802-D OR one year of full-time equivalent or higher specialized security experience in the Federal government or private sector? SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE is defined as experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies needed to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Such experience would include: Providing frontline security protection to air travelers, airports, and airplanes; wanding, performing pat down searches, operating an x-ray machine, screening baggage, and reviewing tickets; identifying dangerous objects on passengers and/or in baggage or cargo, and preventing these objects from being transported onto aircraft; and using diverse electronic detection and imaging equipment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Which of the following do you perform regularly when processing information to make a decision? Select all that apply.
 A. Assess surroundings for potential risks.
 B. Analyze information to identify problems, inconsistencies, or trends.
 C. Analyze problems from several perspectives.
 D. Assess the pros and cons of alternative solutions.
 E. Identify solutions that are most likely to sufficiently resolve the problem.
 F. Distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts.
 G. Evaluate multiple pieces of information before drawing conclusions.
 H. None of the above.
3. Which of the following best describes the way you solve problems in a group setting?
 A. I rely on my own expertise to solve the problem.
 B. I gather information and facts from the entire group before solving the problem on my own.
 C. I consult people in the group that I think are best able to help me solve the problem.
 D. I solve the problem based on what best benefits me.
 E. I solve the problem based on what best benefits everyone.
4. Which of the following best describes how you generally resolve problems?
 A. I find innovative ways to resolve problems within existing policies and procedures.
 B. I review policies and procedures but occasionally deviate from them to find better solutions.
 C. I find ways to resolve problems without considering existing policies and procedures.
 D. I follow policies and procedures to resolve problems.
5. Which of the following best describes how you make a decision quickly when minimal information is provided?
 A. I attempt to gather additional information and make a decision based on my experience and reasoning.
 B. I review possible outcomes and base my decision on which outcome I determine to be best.
 C. I make an intuitive decision based on the information provided.
 D. I consider the information provided and I ask for input from a peer or leader before making my decision.
 E. I present the provided information to a peer or leader and have them make the decision.
6. Which of the following best describes how you determine when something is likely to go wrong?
 A. I assess my surroundings at all times in order to observe any changes in my environment.
 B. I wait until a problem arises and respond as needed.
 C. I observe people in my surroundings to identify behaviors that are out of the ordinary.
 D. I rely on my network to inform me when something is likely to go wrong.
 E. I evaluate critical data and consider the potential effects.
7. When I lead members of a team or group to accomplish a task:
 A. I give specific instructions and expect them to be followed without question.
 B. I inform the team of the task that needs to be completed and let them figure out how to accomplish the task themselves.
 C. I inform the team of the task that needs to be completed, offer assistance, and then allow them to accomplish the task on their own.
 D. I guide the team step by step and monitor them in order to ensure the task is completed correctly.
 E. I inform the team of the task that needs to be completed and work together with them to get the task accomplished.
8. When I am part of a team and the team members have conflicts:
 A. I take charge and resolve the conflict.
 B. I defend the member(s) I think are right and try to resolve the conflict.
 C. I let the members work it out amongst themselves.
 D. I present the issue to another peer or leader to address.
 E. I act as a mediator between the members and help them come to a mutually agreeable resolution.
9. When assigned to work with individual(s) with whom I have had conflicts in the past:
 A. I have not had experience working with individual(s) with whom I have had conflicts in the past.
 B. I ask to be reassigned.
 C. I avoid the individual(s) as much as possible while still fulfilling my responsibilities.
 D. I put aside our differences and maintain professionalism.
 E. I approach the individual(s) and try to make amends.
10. Which statement best describes your ability to work with individuals in a team environment?
 A. I work best by myself.
 B. I work best with individuals who think like I do.
 C. I work best with individuals who have knowledge, skills, and abilities similar to my own.
 D. I work best with individuals with diverse skill sets.
 E. I work best with individuals I already know.
11. Which of the following best describes how you react to sudden changes in the work environment?
 A. I have not had experience reacting to sudden changes in the work environment.
 B. I often require assistance from supervisors in order to adapt.
 C. I adapt to the changes once it is apparent that others have adapted.
 D. I question the reasoning behind the changes but still comply.
 E. I adapt to the changes.
 F. I adapt and then assist others in adapting to the changes.
12. Which of the following best describes your typical reaction time when adapting to new information?
 A. I adapt immediately even if I have questions about the new information.
 B. I need time to process the new information, but eventually I will adapt.
 C. Before I adapt, I need time to confer with supervisors to fully understand the reasoning behind the new information.
 D. I need to see my coworkers adapt before I adapt.
 E. I adapt immediately and ensure that my coworkers also understand and adapt.
13. How do you consider information offered by others when working on a task?
 A. I am open to new ideas and differing opinions.
 B. I am open to the input but validate the information before taking action.
 C. I am open to information as long as it comes from a like-minded source.
 D. I listen but continue on my original course of action.
 E. None of the above.
14. Which of the following tasks have you performed in a rapidly changing environment? Select all that apply.
 A. Adapted a plan.
 B. Evaluated and allocated resources (e.g., staff, supplies, time, etc.).
 C. Maintained awareness of situational changes.
 D. Managed competing priorities and multiple assignments.
 E. Set goals and established priorities.
 F. None of the above.
15. Which of the following do you have experience with? Select all that apply.
 A. Overseeing groups of diverse individuals.
 B. Leading individuals with little to no direction from my superiors.
 C. Leading individuals with direct oversight from my superiors.
 D. Supervising individuals during stressful situations.
 E. Giving performance feedback to groups or individuals.
 F. Inspiring others to accomplish common goals.
 G. Encouraging development of skills.
 H. Delivering praise and recognition.
 I. Providing corrective actions.
 J. None of the above.
16. Which of the following best reflects your ability to model high standards of honesty, integrity, and respect for individuals?
 A. I tend to follow the norms of the group.
 B. I model behavior that is appropriate for the situation.
 C. I expect others to model their own high standards.
 D. My actions and words consistently reflect high standards.
 E. I model high standards and encourage others to do the same.
17. Which of the following best describes your method for helping others accomplish a shared goal?
 A. I expect others to accomplish the goal with little guidance or influence from me or anyone else.
 B. I offer guidance to influence others to accomplish the shared goal.
 C. I encourage feedback from others and incorporate their ideas to accomplish the goal.
 D. I tell the group how to accomplish the shared goal.
18. Which statement best describes your approach to coaching others to make effective decisions?
 A. I let others make their own decisions and follow-up with them afterwards.
 B. I collaborate with individuals to help them make effective decisions.
 C. I guide others through the decision-making process.
 D. I make the decision for the individual so that they can learn from the experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
19. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment with the TSA is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected