Position Title
Nursing Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12780799-25-CDB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 11, 2025 to Tuesday, August 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with John D. Dingell VA Medical Center. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents. Failure to respond to all questions in this assessment will result in an ineligible rating. Overstating your qualifications and/or experience in your application materials or application questionnaire may result in your removal from consideration. Cheating on the online assessment may also result in your removal from consideration.
Basic Requirements - This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Nursing Assistant, GS-0621 position.
To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.

Experience, Education, or Training Requirements:

Six months of general experience:

Experience that demonstrates the ability to acquire the knowledge and skills to perform the work of a Nursing Assistant (NA); OR,

One year of education above high school:

With courses related to the NA occupation; OR,

Completion of an intensive, specialized, occupation-related training:

Course of study or program of less than one year as a NA may also fully meet the experience requirements for GS-3.
Please note: A transcript (official or unofficial) must be submitted with your application packet. The transcript must include the following information:- Your Name- Name of the College or University- Full Address of the College or University- Degree Received (if applicable)- Date Degree was Conferred (if applicable)

Question: Do you meet the basic requirements as described above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Minimum Requirement for GS-5 Level
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2.

Experience or Education Requirements:

You must have one of the following:

One year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-4 level:

This experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment; OR,

Successful completion of a four-year course of study above high school:

Leading to a bachelor's degree that included 24 semester hours of courses related to health care, or possession of a bachelor's degree.

Candidates must also demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:

Nursing Care:

Ability to assist in the full range of nursing care to patients/residents with physical and/or behavioral problems in a hospital, long-term care, or outpatient setting under the direction of a Registered Nurse and/or Licensed Vocational Nurse/Licensed Practical Nurse.

Communication:

Ability to communicate orally with patients/residents, families, interdisciplinary team, and other personnel. This includes serving as a preceptor to new nursing assistants by assisting with the coordination of their orientation and overseeing/assessing their practical experience while in a clinical setting.

Emergent Care Situations:

Ability to recognize and react to emergent patient/resident care situations and intervene while waiting for assistance. For example, recognizing the need for basic life support, controlling bleeding, and assisting with behavioral crises, etc.

Question: Do you meet the requirements as described above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder:

To ensure your resume meets the requirements for this position, it must include the following information for each listed job:

Company Name and Full Address
Job Title
Duties: Provide as much detail as possible.
Start/End Dates: Include the month and year (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008).
Employment Status: Specify whether the position was full-time or part-time, and include the number of hours worked per week.

If your resume does not include all of the above items, you will not be considered for this position.

Please note that your responses to the application questions will be verified against the information provided on your resume. It is crucial that your resume clearly supports your responses by detailing your relevant work experience.

Although we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear and comprehensive so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.



3. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and given in good faith. I understand that making any intentional false statement, or committing deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, could result in severe consequences. These may include being fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); cancellation of my eligibilities; denial of an appointment; or removal and debarment from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I acknowledge that any information I provide may be subject to investigation. I also understand that indicating "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
Certification of Information Accuracy:

Please be aware that your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. There are specific steps in the selection process designed to verify the accuracy of your responses. Any deliberate attempts to falsify information will result in disqualification or dismissal from employment if already accepted.

Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected