Position Title
Medical Records Technician (CDIS) Inpatient/Outpatient
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12802948-25-KT Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Record Technician (Clinical Documentation Integrity Specialist CDIS -Inpatient/Outpatient) GS-0675-09 position. We will evaluate your application and responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Your responses are subject to verification. Please read the announcement in its entirety and review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
Resume. (REQUIRED by ALL) Your resume must have the following information for each position you have listed on your resume: position title, employer, city/state, duties, begin/end dates of employment including the month and year (mm/yy - mm/yy), and full-time or part-time status with the number of hours worked each week. IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE MAY NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE and/or KSAs. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
Clear Copy of official Transcripts for education verification. Required if you are applying on the basis of your education, you are REQUIRED to submit a legible copy of your college transcript in order to use education to qualify. See Veteran's Preference section of this announcement.
An official transcript is a copy of your permanent academic record that includes:
A list of the courses you took.
The dates you attended the school.
Your major and degree.
Your cumulative grade point average (GPA).
Any honors you received.
The date your degree was awarded.
Latest non-award SF-50. Current VA OR FEDERAL employees MUST provide their recent SF50 (dated the current year). SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action must be submitted showing current position, grade, series, etc.). 'Award' or 'Incentive' SF-50 DO NOT contain the required information and will not be considered valid required documentation to verify status.
Certification/Licensure. Must provide a clear copy of your Mastery Certification.
**IF THE REQUIRED DOCUMENTS ARE NOT SUBMITTED, YOU WILL NOT RECEIVE CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION**
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a US. Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you proficient in written and spoken form of the English Language?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. GS-9 Grade Requirement: Applicants must meet the Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Integrity Specialist (CDIS-Inpatient/Outpatient), GS-9 experience for this position. Please select the answer that best describes you
 A. I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level (GS-08) of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient)
 B. An associate’s degree or higher, and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records.
 C. Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement.
 D. Clinical experience such as RN, M.D., or DO, and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvement.
 E. I do not have the education or experience required for the GS-9 grade level.
3a. If you are basing your response on education, please include:

School Name
Date of Completion
Major
Degree/Program

* Please ensure to submit your academic transcript with your application in order to receive consideration
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Employees at this level must have either a mastery level certification or a clinical documentation improvement certification.

Current mastery level certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS)Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P)Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT)Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA)Certified Professional Coder (CPC)Certified Outpatient Coder (COC)Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC)

Current Clinical Documentation Improvement Certifications include: Clinical Documentation Improvement Practitioner (CDIP)Certified Clinical Documentation Specialist (CCDS).


Do you possess a Mastery level certification?

**A clear, unexpired copy of your certification must be submitted with application in order to receive consideration
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Inpatient and Outpatient);


OR,


(b) Education. An associate's degree or higher, and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records);


OR,


Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement;


OR,


Clinical experience such as RN, M.D., or DO, and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvement.


(c) Assignment. For all assignments above the journey level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. CDISs must be able to perform all duties of a MRT (Coder-Inpatient and Outpatient). CDISs serve as the liaison between health information management and clinical staff. They are responsible for facilitating improved overall quality, education, completeness and accuracy of health record documentation through extensive interaction with clinical, coding, and other associated staff to ensure clinical documentation supports services rendered to patients, appropriate workload is captured, and resources are properly allocated. They review documentation and facilitate modifications to the health record to ensure accurate severity of illness, risk of mortality, complexity of care, and utilization of resources. They identify opportunities for documentation improvement by ensuring that diagnoses and procedures are documented to the highest level of specificity, accurately address all acute and chronic conditions, and reflect the true health status of patients. They recommend changes and/or update medical center policy pertaining to clinical documentation improvement. They serve as a technical expert in health record content and documentation requirements. They query clinical staff to clarify ambiguous, conflicting, or incomplete documentation. They review appropriateness of and responses to queries through review of query reports. They review health record documentation, develop criteria, collect data, graph and analyze results, create reports, and communicate orally and/or in writing to appropriate groups and leadership. They obtain appropriate corrective action plans from responsible clinical service directors and recommend improvements or changes in documentation practices, when applicable. They adhere to established documentation requirements as outlined by accrediting agencies guidelines, regulations, policies, and medical-legal requirements. They monitor trends in the industry and/or changes in regulations that could, or should, impact coding and documentation practices and identify who may require education. They are responsible for the development and implementation of active training/education programs (i.e., seminars, workshops, short courses, informational briefings, and conferences) for all clinical staff to ensure the CDIS program objectives are met. They provide training in small or large groups, educating clinical staff about current documentation standards and improvement techniques, including accurate and ethical documentation practices. They apply applicable coding conventions and guidelines to identify the principal and secondary diagnoses and complete significant procedures to accurately reflect the patient's hospital course and DRG assignment in the inpatient setting. These are also applied to accurately reflect medical necessity and level of service or procedure performed in the outpatient setting.

Do you possess the qualifying experience for this position at the GS-09 level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:


i. Knowledge of coding and documentation concepts, guidelines, and clinical terminology.
ii. Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology to interpret and analyze all information in a patient's health record, including laboratory and other test results to identify opportunities for more precise and/or complete documentation in the health record.
iii. Ability to collect and analyze data and present results in various formats, which may include presenting reports to various organizational levels.
iv. Ability to establish and maintain strong verbal and written communication with providers.
v. Knowledge of regulations that define healthcare documentation requirements, including The Joint Commission, CMS, and VA guidelines.vi. Extensive knowledge of coding rules and regulations, to include current clinical classification systems such as ICD10 CM and PCS, CPT, and HCPCS. They must also possess knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), MS-DRG structure, and POA indicators.
vii. Knowledge of severity of illness, risk of mortality, complexity of care for inpatients, and CPT Evaluation and Management (E/M) criteria to ensure the correct selection of E/M codes that match patient type, setting of service, and level of E/M service provided for outpatients.
viii. Knowledge of training methods and teaching skills sufficient to conduct continuing education for staff development. The training sessions may be technical in nature or may focus on teaching techniques for the improvement of clinical documentation issues.


Do you meet the KSAs required for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: 
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
 Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected