Position Title
Supervisory Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12773382-FDSMSD-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Wednesday, August 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a current USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Camp Springs, MD
 C. Lees Summit, MO
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Select the practices that you have used to successfully manage human resources in your agency or organization.
 A. I have undertaken capacity planning to identify jobs that need to be filled in the short, medium, and long term.
 B. I have identified and reduced discrepancies between required and available competencies among my staff by successfully implementing employee training and professional development plans.
 C. I have ensured that my employees’ workload over the short, medium, and long term is realistic and sustainable by effectively monitoring employees’ progress and shifting assignments when needed.
 D. I have implemented a performance management program that includes frequent feedback to my employees so that they have a better understanding of their progress and can feel more engaged in their work.
 E. I have taken courses or training on human resource management.
 F. None of the above.
5. Select the areas in which you have contributed to maintaining the integrity of personnel within an organization.
 A. I have demonstrated accountability for my actions.
 B. I have identified potential conflicts of interest and raised concerns to higher level personnel.
 C. I have supported the development and implementation of systems for the reporting of unethical behavior.
 D. I have made recommendations to processes that ensure confidentiality and privacy of employee information and organizational data.
 E. I have influenced the integrity and accountability of others by acting ethically in a leadership role.
 F. None of these apply.
6. Select the Human Resources functions you have performed to provide administrative support to customers (e.g., managers, administrative officers, selecting officials, applicants, employees, union officials).
 A. Recruitment and staffing (e.g., position classification, position management)
 B. Full Time Equivalent (FTE)/Individual Position Number (IPN) Utilization
 C. Personnel actions processing
 D. Adverse Actions
 E. Training on human resources topics
 F. None of the above
7. Which Human Resources Information Systems have you independently operated?
 A. Personnel Action System
 B. Applicant Tracking System
 C. Pay System
 D. Time Card Tracking System
 E. Electronic Personnel File
 F. None of the above
8. Which personnel-related items/documents have you completed?
 A. Personnel Budget Projections
 B. Budget Requests for New Personnel
 C. Position Description
 D. Job Analysis
 E. Disciplinary Action
 F. Recruitment Actions
 G. None of the above
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing action plans to achieve goals?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to developing action plans to achieve goals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing action plans to achieve goals, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I reviewed office goals for alignment with the organizational mission.
 D. I created action plans to implement and meet goals across program areas.
 E. I participated in developing action items to support establishing goals for a specific program area.
 F. I led others in the development of actions items to support specific goals in a program areas.
10. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Have you ever evaluated the work performance of subordinates?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience measuring workload based on personnel requirements?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to measuring workloads but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently monitored my workload to ensure personnel shortcomings and workload requirements were met.
 C. I participated in a work group or shared team to devise and monitor workload and personnel balances to accomplish organizational needs.
 D. I served as a primary contributor by monitoring and advising the management of my workload and the workload of others
 E. I developed a method of tracking workload demands in contrast to employee ratios based on varied levels of experience and complexity.
 F. I provided feedback on my workload balance strategic efforts and provided feedback for process improvement.
 G. None of the above
14. Choose the statement that best describes your experience organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 A. I have created strategies to make high quality decisions regarding organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 B. My work has allowed engagement in defining criteria to direct others in developing platforms for decisions while organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 C. I consistently support others within the organization to develop techniques to serve as precedents and future best practices in organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
15. Which of the following describes your ability to provide effective communication to convey recommendations to various levels of leadership?
 A. I have conducted meetings with key stakeholders to gather and document business requirements.
 B. I have conducted interviews and working sessions with key stakeholders to obtain information on business functions, and procedures.
 C. I have made oral presentations of analysis, findings, and recommendations to key stakeholders.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
16. Choose the statements that describe your experiences directing the development and implementation of long-term products or services that are consistent with the organization's strategic vision.
 A. I worked on a team that has developed and implemented products and services that are consistent with the organization’s strategic vision.
 B. I led a team of managers to develop and implement products and services that are consistent with the organization’s strategic vision.
 C. I developed and implemented products and services that align with the organization’s strategic vision.
 D. I developed strategic plans.
 E. I received training on how to develop strategic plans.
 F. I developed strategic plans that tie mission objectives to the organization vision.
 G. None of the above statements describe my experience.
17. I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 A. True
 B. False
18. Select the statements that best describe your experience leading or participating as a team member on specific projects.
 A. Communicated the organization’s strategic plan, mission, vision, and values to work team members and integrated them into the team’s strategies, goals, objectives, work plans products, and services.
 B. Communicated the assignment, project, problem to be solved, actions to be taken, milestones, program issues, and timeframes for completion to all team members.
 C. Coached the team and provided advice on appropriate work methods, practices, and procedures, and identified the parameters of a viable solution.
 D. Led the team in identifying, distributing, balancing, and adjusting workload and tasks as needed in accordance with established workflow, skill level and/or occupational specialization, and priorities.
 E. Participated in various team projects to analyze specific issues and to develop an approach to resolve specific agency problems or projects.
 F. Monitored and reported on status and progress of work, checked on work in progress and reviewed completed work to see that the team met the instruction on work priorities, methods, deadlines, and quality.
 G. Coached, facilitated and/or negotiated in coordinating team initiatives and built consensus.
 H. Amended or rejected work that did not meet established standards.
 I. None of the above.
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
20. Do you have experience in the application of analytical and/or evaluative methods to assess program issues?
 A. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods to assess efficiency and effectiveness in program operations and I’ve used this information to present findings to the financial management team.
 B. I have evaluated program operations and administrative support functions using analytical and evaluative methods to support organizational structures.
 C. I have applied basic analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to assess program issues and conduct studies.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
21. Select the statements that describe your experience engaging stakeholders in discussion and collaborative integration of ideas, recommendations and refinement into program/project requirements.
 A. I coordinated differing perspectives program/project requirements with stakeholders external to the agency.
 B. I provided critical input to wide reaching policy determinations impacting stakeholders, customers, and other government agencies.
 C. I independently led a team of managers on concurrent projects that required the engagement of external stakeholders in order to collaborate and devise ideas and recommendation into optimal solutions.
 D. I managed a project team comprised of a wide-variety of stakeholders with varying opinions and ideas for solutions.
 E. I worked collaboratively with internal stakeholders to identify and resolve a complex operational solution.
 F. None of the above statements describe my experience.
22. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
23. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
24. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected