Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12796223-25-MH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Laboratory Scientist GS-0644-7/9/11 position. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:

(1) Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
OR
(2)The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.

Do you posses a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?

 A. Yes, I posses a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university
 B. I meet the basic requirements of this position by being covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 C. I am on track to complete this requirement, I understand I may be considered for this position.
 D. No, I have not completed the educational requirements to be considered for this position.
3. Certification.
Candidates must meet one (1) of the certification options below.
(a) Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
(b) Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
(c) Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.

NOTE: -Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).

Exception for Non-Certified:

(a) Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
(b) Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C.7405(c (2).
(c) Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.
(d) Non-Certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
(e) Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond two (2) years or be converted to a new temporary appointment
 A. I possess a generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 B. I possess a generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 C. I possess a categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 D. I do not possess certification as described above, however I meet all the requirements to become certified and understand I may only be considered for an entry level and temporary appointment.
 E. I do not possess the certification above or any any of the exception for the non-certified.
Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements of this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:
(1) Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) If an assignment above the FPL requires an additional certification over and above the basic requirements, employees must meet the assignment-specific requirement before they can be promoted.
(3) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(4) Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation. (5) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain certification that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
GRADE SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met for this position.
4. Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-07 (Entry Level)

Do you meet the basic requirements (listed above) for this position?

 A. Yes, I meet the basic requirements for the Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-07 (Entry Level) position.
 B. I meet the basic requirements of this position by being covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 C. No, I do not meet the basic requirements for the Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-07 (Entry Level) position.
5. Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09.

Experience or Education. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must also meet one of the criteria below:
(1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07)
OR
(2) have a Master's degree or two academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.

In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
(c)Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
(d)Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
(e)Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
(f)Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

Please select the appropriate answer based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

 A. I have one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07) and can demonstrate the KSAs listed above. KSA must be documented on your resume.
 B. I have a Masters degree or two (2) academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. I do not have the experience and/or education described above.
6. Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11.
Experience or Education Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

(a) Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09).
OR
(b)Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.

In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

(a) Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
(c) Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
(d) Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
(e) Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
(f) Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
(g) Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

Select the option below that best describes your qualifications:

 A. I have one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-09) and can demonstrate the KSAs listed above. KSA must be documented on your resume.
 B. I have three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 C. I do not have the experience and/or education described above.
7. I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 A. I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed demonstrates the KSAs for the grade(s).
 B. I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy.
License/Certification Reminder - If a License/Certification is required for the position for which you have applied, License details MUST be provided in EITHER the applicant's Resume or other Supporting Documents.
Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses health information technology courses that are directly related to MRA work by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions from the course number that the listed courses meet the requirements. (REQUIRED). NOTE: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Failure to provide copy of transcripts will result in NOT being referred.
SF-50 Reminder - Important note regarding documenting eligibility. To be considered for this position as a facility or current VA employee or federal employee, you must provide your most recent SF-50. Failure to provide a current SF-50 will result in not being referred. NOTE: "Award' or 'Incentive" SF-50 DO NOT contain the required information and will not be considered valid required documentation to verify status.
8. I have read and understand the requirements for a complete application. Failure to follow the instruction and failure to provide the required documents will result in NOT being referred.

 A. I understand that I must provide all required documents listed in the vacancy announcement that apply to me. I understand that failure to provide required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.
 B. I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete application for this vacancy.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected