Position Title
Attorney Advisor
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12801835-25-FM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
13
14
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?

 A. Yes, I possess an LL.B. or a J.D. degree.
 B. No, I do NOT possess this education.
2. Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded (MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia).

3. Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia?

 A. Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 B. No, I am NOT a member of the bar.
4. Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA).

5. From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-13 position.

 A. Yes, I have 2 full years (24 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: Analyzing complex legal questions and factual immigration issues for use in the review, interpretation, and application of immigration law; Drafting policies, procedures, training, or other highly complex legal work products involving the analysis and application of existing, new, or amended regulations, legislation, and other changes in law; AND using effective oral and written communication and negotiation skills to communicate assessments to administrative adjudicators or other subject matter experts, understanding and acting upon detailed oral and written instructions, and demonstrating a commitment to personal and organizational success. (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of LL.B. or J.D.)
 B. No, I do NOT have this experience.
6. From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-14 position.
 A. Yes, I have 3 full years (36 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: Evaluating and identifying potential rulemaking or other large-scale policy initiatives that promote agency policy objectives and address operational concerns, legal cases or other impacts to the activities of the agency; Conducting comprehensive legal reviews of draft regulations, policy directives, and operational concepts in order to provide substantive and procedural advice that will resolve impediments to the agency’s ability to lawfully execute its mission; AND providing sound recommendations in response to a wide range of questions of immigration law and policy involved in the operations of the Agency and the effect of such operations on other activities, Government agencies, industry, and the general public. (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of LL.B. or J.D.)
 B. No, I do NOT have this experience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected