Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (VIST Coordinator)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12797694-25-SA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (VIST Coordinator) position with Jesse Brown Medical Center. The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (VIST Coordinator) are prescribed by Public Law 96-151 codified in 38 U.S.C. ? 7402. To qualify for appointment, all applicants for the position of Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (VIST Coordinator) in VHA must meet the following requirements.
1. Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j. Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
CREDITABLE EXPERIENCE. To be creditable, the experience must have demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current mental health counseling practice. Experience satisfying this requirement must be active professional practice at the post- master's degree level, which is paid/non-paid employment as a professional mental health counselor. Experience is only creditable if it is post- master's degree experience as a mental health counselor directly related to the position to be filled. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to LPMHC experience at the next lower grade level.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Grade Determination GS 11 BRS (VIST Coordinator)
Experience: 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled. Bachelor's degree and completion of one year of experience. OR,
Education: Three years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Doctoral Degree; or Doctoral Degree in Blind Rehabilitation or a directly 8 related field.

In addition to the qualification requirements listed above, you must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA):
- Ability to assess Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
- Ability to write a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
- Knowledge of VA blind and low vision rehabilitation treatment programs.
- Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers and other stakeholders.
- Knowledge of psychological, rehabilitation, and counseling theories and principles.
- Ability to coordinate with various resources to identify suitable training programs.

Do you meet these requirements?

NOTE: You MUST demonstrate your qualifications and the KSAs on your resume.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Certification. VIST Coordinator candidates must meet the certification requirements in paragraph 3c(3) above. BRSs who are VIST Coordinators may be drawn from traditional blind/vision rehabilitation backgrounds and from counseling backgrounds such as social work, vocational rehabilitation counseling, etc. VIST Coordinators may be credentialed/certified through any of the following: (a) Certification via the ACVREP; (b) Licensure via the Social Worker Licensure Board; (c) Certification via the CRCC; OR (d) Equivalent and relevant professional credential in counseling or rehabilitation. Examples of other health care occupations may include but are not limited to Marriage and Family Therapists or Licensed Mental Health Counselors. Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Grade Determination GS 12 BRS (VIST Coordinator)
Experience: completion of a minimum of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to GS-11 grade level. OR,
Certification: VIST Coordinators must meet the certification requirements listed above.

In addition to the qualification requirements listed above, you must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA):
- Skill to effectively communicate both orally and in writing with staff at all organizational levels, with Veterans and their family members, with community groups, and individuals with varying degrees of understanding.
- Ability to assess Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for therapeutic interventions.
- Skill in writing a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines and contains observable, measurable goals that identify specific outcomes.
- Knowledge of VA and non-VA blind and low vision rehabilitation treatment programs
- Skill in interpersonal relationships dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers, and other stakeholders.
- Knowledge of psychological, rehabilitation, and counseling theories and principles.
- Ability to coordinate with various resources to identify suitable training programs.
- Ability to apply decision-making principles to adjust programs on a day-to-day basis, to develop short term and long-range goals, and to plan for future utilization of resources.

Do you meet these requirements?

NOTE: You MUST demonstrate your qualifications and the KSAs on your resume.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Employer name and complete address; Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); and Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript Reminder - Due to the positive education requirement unofficial transcripts or an appropriate course listing must be submitted with your application. Applications will not be considered without appropriate transcripts.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected