Position Title
Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1630-JELA-25-12754516-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. 1. Are you the spouse of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty?

-OR-

2. Are you a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty?

-OR-

3. Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit documentation verifying active duty status; and documentation verifying marriage to the member of the armed forces (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that holds, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a current Department of the Interior Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of The Interior employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former member of the Public Lands Corps (PLC) who has served the time required for completing a PLC project carried out on Federal land within the preceding 2 years (an individuals eligibility for NCE under this authority shall not exceed 2 years after completion of his/her last PLC project), and:

• Served as a qualified youth on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours through the PLC (individuals must provide a copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for NCE Hiring Based on PLC Service" and the complete PLC Participant Work Hours Verification Form with your application package in order to be considered under this hiring authority), and

• Meet OPM qualification standards and any other qualification requirement(s) stated in this vacancy announcement for the position in which you are applying.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.

To verify your eligibility as a Department of the Interior Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of the Interior employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
 
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
2. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Selective Placement Factors (SCREEN-OUT)
1. Selectees must possess or be able to obtain a Level I Law Enforcement Commission by the close of the announcement. You will be required to maintain a Level I Law Enforcement Commission after you begin work. This is a secondary administrative law enforcement officer position in an organization having a law enforcement mission. An NPS Type I (full) Law Enforcement Commission is required. Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or training. Please indicate if you currently hold or have held a NPS (Type I) law enforcement commission within the past three years. (You must include your commission number and expiration date, in your resume/application). If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position.
 A. I currently hold, or have previously held, a FLERT issued Land Management Police Training (LMPT), full Type I law enforcement commission or equivalent within the past three years. (You must indicate your commission number and date, location and date of your last 40-hour refresher training, and the date of your last established proficiency in the use of firearms in your resume).
 B. I will successfully complete the above Type I Law Enforcement Training Program prior to the closing date of the announcement. (You must indicate your expected completion date in your resume).
 C. I do not hold a NPS Type 1 Law Enforcement Commission and will not be qualified to receive a NPS Type 1 Law Enforcement Commission by the closing date of this announcement.
2. This is a covered secondary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) (CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). To meet the selective factor applicants must have served 3 years in a primary law enforcement position. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 A. I have served 3 years in a primary law enforcement position by the close date of this announcement.
 B. I have not served 3 years in a primary law enforcement position by the close date of this announcement.
3. This is a primary position covered by enhanced retirement provisions which stipulate mandatory retirement at age 57 after 20 years of service. Applicants must be at least 21 years of age and must not have reached their 37th birthday upon appointment to this position. Two exceptions are allowed: 1) an applicant has prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57; or 2) an applicant is a qualified veterans' preference eligible, in which case the MEA is waived, and their corresponding retirement age may be higher than 57 after completing 20 years of service.
 A. I am at least 21 years of age and will not reach my 37th birthday upon appointment to this position.
 B. I have prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57.
 C. I am a qualified veterans' preference eligible, in which case the MEA is waived, and my corresponding retirement age may be higher than 57 after completing 20 years of service.
 D. I do not meet any of the above statements.
Specialized Experience Requirements (SCREEN-OUT)
4. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for the position of Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-13. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position at the GS-13 level. Your resume or application materials you submit for this announcement must support the answer you claim under this and other questions. If not, you will be found not qualified or your score will be lowered.
 A. I have one or more years of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience could include: Park Guide or tour leader; law enforcement or investigative work; archeological or historical preservation research work; forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work. You must include hours per week worked in your resume.
 B. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement as described above.
5. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected