Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12794581-25-KLT Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Registered Respiratory Therapist position at VA Manchester New Hampshire Healthcare System. This assessment is designed to determine an applicants eligibility through their education and experience. Please answer each question below to show how you meet the basic requirements of the occupation and the grade determining factors.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: Citizenship : Citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3,section A, paragraph 3g, of this part. See 38 U.S.C. ? 7407(a) for more information.

Are you a citizen of the United States of America?

 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: English Language Proficiency: RTs/RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38U.S.C. ? 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoke and written English ?

 Yes
 No


3.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: Education: Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

Do you possess the basic educational requirement of completing a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor ?
 Yes, I possess the basic educational requirement of completing a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.
 No, I do not possess the basic educational requirement of completing a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.


4.
Please enter the following information regarding your education in a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

Name of School:
Degree Obtained:
Conferred Date:



5.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: Licensure: Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Do you possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?

 Yes , I possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
 No , I do not possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.


6.
Please enter the following information regarding your Licensure showing that you possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

License Number:
State that issued License:
Expiration Date:



7.
BASIC REQUIREMENT: Credential: Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Do you must possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT ?
 Yes I possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
 No I do not possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT and understand that I will not be referred to the hiring manager.


8.
Please enter the following information regarding your RRT Credential showing that you possess and maintain a current and unrestricted RRT Credential.

Date Earned:
Expiration Date:
Registry # :



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
GRADE DETERMINATION: Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-05: Entry Level Experience. None beyond the basic requirements. 
RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment pending obtaining the RRT credential. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38U.S.C. § 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment.

Do you possess the basic requirements of the Registered Respiratory Therapist occupation for education, Licensure and RRT Credential ( or meet the exception) ?
 Yes
 No


10.
GRADE DETERMINATION: Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-07: Developmental level :In addition to the basic requirements of this occupation applicants must possess the following:

Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration. In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential. AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
iii. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Do you possess an active current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT and hold an RRT credential as well as meet the KSA's for this grade level GS-07 ?
 Yes I possess the required Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential and meet all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to be referred at the GS-07 level of this occupation.
 No I do not possess the required Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential and meet all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to be referred at the GS-07 level of this occupation and I understand that I will not be referred to the hiring manager.


11.
GRADE DETERMINATION: Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-09:In addition to the basic requirements of this occupation applicants must possess the following:

Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have:
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level OR
 A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential. AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Do you possess at least one full year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 level and hold an active license and RRT credential as well as meet the KSA's for this grade level?
 Yes I possess the required Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential and meet all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to be referred at the GS-09 level of this occupation.
 No I do not possess the required Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential and meet all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to be referred at the GS-09 level of this occupation and I understand that I will not be referred to the hiring manager.


12.
GRADE DETERMINATION: Registered Respiratory Therapist GS-11 Full Performance Level : Experience, Licensure and Credential and meet all KSA's.

Experience, Licensure and Credential: Candidates must have: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level and hold an active license and RRT credential.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

Do you possess at least one full year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 level and hold an active license and RRT credential as well as meet the KSA's for this grade level?
 Yes I possess the required Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential and meet all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to be referred at the GS-11 level of this occupation.
 No I do not possess the required Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential and meet all Knowledge, Skills and Abilities to be referred at the GS-11 level of this occupation and understand that I will not be referred to the hiring manager.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information:
Applicants name and current contact information.
Names of companies and the departments where you have worked.
Job title(s)
Duties performed in each position. (Be as detailed as possible.)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2017 to April 2018)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Grade and Step for each position held for all federal jobs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙