Position Title
Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN-25-12791354 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications within the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an FFSC Sexual Assault Response Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All education and experience stated in answers must be reflected in resume and/or transcripts.
1. Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0101 Social Science Series?
 A. I have a four-year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 B. I have at least four (4) years of appropriate experience demonstrated to represent acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience. (Equivalent combination is described here: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/generalschedule-qualification-standards/#url=GS-PROF)
 D. I have no experience with the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you have at least four (4) years of specialized experience in victim assistance or advocacy within either military or civilian sector? (Note, if basic qualification is met with experience, this may also be credited for specialized experience requirement, if appropriate (e.g. four years of appropriate experience in victim assistance or advocacy, also fully meets specialized experience requirement.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. How many years of experience do you have conducting effective sexual assault prevention and response trainings and briefings?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 2 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have providing non-clinical, one-on-one support to victims of sexual harassment?
 A. I have 4+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
5. Which describes your experience interpreting and applying sexual assault prevention and response policies (please select all that apply)?
 A. I have experience with the above within the Department of Navy (DON).
 B. I have experience with the above within the Department of Defense (DoD), but outside of the DON.
 C. I have experience with the above within the federal government, but outside of the DoD.
 D. I have experience with the above within state or local government, or private industry.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected