Position Title
SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT AND PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12781234-VM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 A. I am an external candidate and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, the resume and application materials I have submitted will be used to determine salary. I also understand that I will not be permitted to provide an updated resume to OHR after the application period has closed.
 B. I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.
2. How did you hear about this position?
--Select-- 
--Select--
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)
3. Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Management and Program Analyst, SK-0343-15 position within the Division of Enforcement (ENF) at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you a current permanent or conditional, competitive service employee assigned to the Division of Enforcement within the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission? Please refer to block 24 for Tenure and block 34 for "Position Occupied" of your latest Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform as a Supervisory Management and Program Analyst, SK-0343-15.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/SK-13 level: Providing advice and guidance to managers related to at least three of the following areas (experience must be demonstrated in the resume): human resource management; hiring; budgeting; business process improvement; continuity of operations planning (COOP); and applying general administrative principles, policies and procedures.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above and therefore I am ineligible for the position.
The following questions assess your qualifications. Please select the best answer(s) that describe(s) your experience.
3. Select the statement(s) that demonstrate your experience with administrative processes, practices, and policies that pertain to a variety of administrative areas including human capital support (select all that apply).
 A. I have taken a lead role in coordinating / supporting the hiring program for a medium or large organization.
 B. I have managed or coordinated office space assignments for a medium or large organization.
 C. I have taken a lead role in coordinating PWPs or other similar performance management programs and processes.
 D. I have developed spreadsheets and Power Point presentations that capture administrative/hiring program status for presentation to senior managers.
 E. I have drafted and forwarded electronic communications to senior managers that describe administrative/HR processes.
 F. I have coordinated an incentive awards program, to include processing awards and tracking an awards budget.
 G. I have coordinated the onboarding of new employees and/or the off-boarding of exiting employees.
 H. I have initiated and/or approved personnel actions.
 I. I have participated in conference planning and/or execution.
 J. I have participated in operational or planning meetings to discuss program or project milestones or activities.
 K. I have prepared and liquidated travel for members of a medium or large organization.
 L. My level of experience is less than as described above.
4. Select the statement that best demonstrates your ability to provide advice and support for a variety of administrative programs.
 A. I have excelled in performing a variety of liaison and advisory services for a medium or large organization with administrative requirements that are complex or specialized in nature, including new or emerging requirements that involve evaluating and resolving issues with widespread impact on the organization's operational and administrative goals.
 B. I have performed liaison tasks to support administrative activities of a routine nature, such as answering general questions affiliated with staffing, travel, time and attendance or training.
 C. I have independently performed liaison duties to support administrative activities that require a variety of approaches, such as providing guidance to managers in preparing and justifying an organizational assessment of emerging human resource needs.
 D. I have performed a range of liaison and advisory services for an organization with administrative requirements of a complex or specialized nature, such as conducting an organizational assessment of emerging human resource needs, some of which may be new or of an unusual nature.
 E. My level of experience is less than as described above.
5. Select the statement that best demonstrates your skill applying analytical techniques and evaluative methods to issues or studies concerning administrative and related management matters in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of operations.
 A. I routinely apply established program concepts in an organization with a variety of difficult program needs, or have investigated and prepared recommendations on difficult issues or sensitive information, or evaluated ongoing operations for significant organization missions or programs.
 B. I have participated in administering routine processes of agency programs, such as reviewing requests for administrative actions, or analyzing straightforward work processes against agency productivity criteria.
 C. I have supported the substantive aspects of agency programs, such as analyzing background information to identify program issues from information available, or developing a draft of local procedures for implementation of new or revised directives.
 D. I have applied established program concepts in an organization with a variety of difficult program needs, or investigated and prepared recommendations on difficult issues or sensitive information, or evaluated ongoing operations for significant organization missions or programs.
 E. My level of experience is less than as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Do you have experience researching and interpreting administrative/HR regulations, processes and procedures, and making written recommendations to managers on how best to proceed with completing a task?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Select the statement that best describes your experience with organizing, planning, directing, and reviewing the work of team members.
 A. I have exercised a range of leadership and responsibilities, including most of the following authorities: planning work to be accomplished by subordinates, setting and adjusting short-term work priorities, assigning work based on priorities and capabilities of employees, identifying training and developmental needs, and improving production and quality of work.
 B. I have exercised basic leadership responsibilities, such as conveying instructions received from supervisors to members of the team and initiating work; and have planned, initiated, coordinated, and completed projects.
 C. I have led groups of employees in accomplishing long-term (annual to multi-annual) special projects of a highly technical nature.
 D. My level of experience is less than as described above.
8. Select the statement that best describes your experience with interacting with a wide variety of managers/staff at various echelons within and outside of the agency.
 A. I have provided advice regarding policy initiatives, new procedures, information, and/or deliverables affecting senior management decisions; conducted briefings for organization stakeholders; advised and/or briefed agency senior staff; and trained or facilitated meetings regarding sensitive management advisory matters.
 B. I have participated in planning, analysis, and/or committee meetings with organization administrative staff; and provided advisory services for first and second level management representatives within an organization.
 C. I have served as a liaison with organization management on behalf of an organization segment or unit.
 D. My level of experience is less than as described above.
9. Select the statement that best demonstrates your ability to work with others to gather relevant facts and information related to studies and analysis.
 A. I have coordinated administrative processes with management, staff, and other customers that involve short-term assignments, and have been recognized for my courteous demeanor when discussing information and/or eliciting sensitive or potentially controversial information. I have established effective cooperative working relationships with others so they feel free to ask for advice and assistance.
 B. I have cooperated and worked with management, other employees, and customers, remained courteous when discussing information or eliciting moderately sensitive or controversial information from people who are hesitant to give it, and have established cooperative working relationships with others so they feel free to ask for advice and assistance.
 C. I have established and maintained ongoing working relationships with management, other employees, and customers, remained courteous when discussing information or eliciting information from people who are reluctant to give it, and have actively sought to develop consensus on contentious issues.
 D. I have tactfully handled difficult or uncomfortable situations; worked well with others from diverse backgrounds and across levels in the agency or organization; have networked with others outside of the functional group or agency; explained changes and procedures in a clear and logical manner; encouraged the exchange of ideas and differing viewpoints; and provided positive feedback for active participation in discussions.
 E. My level of experience is less than as described above.
10. Select the statement which best describes your experience presenting written information, and providing advice and liaison support for managing an organization's administrative requirements that are in compliance with federal rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
 A. I have resolved issues with widespread impact on the organization; presented issues to management for signatory authority for accomplishment of responsibilities to support assigned programs; participated in the long-and-short range recruitment programs; and collaborated directly with organization's centralized authority on a wide variety of administrative/management concerns.
 B. I have performed a regular and recurring liaison and advisory services for an organization with varied functions and programs, such as providing written advice on routine administrative requirements for an agency organization.
 C. I have carried out administrative functions with input from a management official; and explained issues in writing to help resolve administrative procedural concerns.
 D. My level of experience is less than as described above.
11. Select the statement that best describes your experience orally communicating in both formal and informal settings, such as communicating ideas, goals, policies, and regulations with co-workers or customers.
 A. I have initiated contact with management officials, staff, and employees to obtain factual information on which to base recommendations, decisions, or actions, and have successfully back-briefed leadership on my actions.
 B. I have initiated contact with management officials, staff, and employees to obtain factual information on which to base recommendations, decisions, or actions.
 C. I have expressed thoughts or opinions in a logical sequence in working with others as a member of a work team; interpreted facts gleaned as a result of carrying out studies or projects, or conveyed information about a project to colleagues within the agency.
 D. I have interacted with managers, peers, and others in communicating information accurately; and obtained and exchanged information, answered questions, and explained well-established policies, procedures, regulatory requirements, and/or standards.
 E. My level of experience is less than as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected