Position Title
REALTY SPECIALIST (REAL ESTATE ANALYST)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12778422-NMG Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Laguna Niguel, CA
 B. Washington, DC
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
8. This position serves as a Real Estate Contracting Officer (RECO); which requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain a Real Estate Contracting Officer (RECO) Warrant; and requires the completion of the Leasing Certification Program (LCP) Level II within 24 months of appointment. The incumbent must possess all requirements for the Leasing Program Level II and respective Real Property Contracting Officer Warrant.

Please select whichever is most applicable from the below.
 A. I currently possess the required certification(s) required for this position (Real Estate Contracting Officer (RECO) Warrant & Leasing Certification Program (LCP) Level II).
 B. I am able to obtain the required certification(s) required for this position within 24 months of appointment (Real Estate Contracting Officer (RECO) Warrant & Leasing Certification Program (LCP) Level II).
 C. I do not possess and am not able to obtain the required certification(s) required for this position within 24 months of appointment.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Analyzing and preparing technical reports; including the cost/benefit of remaining at an existing location or competing procurement for possible relocation; Developing options and alternatives for property acquisition (lease, purchase/construction, and condemnation) by preparing a lease versus purchase analysis; Analyzing technical reports on offered lands, negotiating lease terms and conditions, performing cost and price analysis on offers; Initiates, prepares, and reviews real property transaction documentation for facility property management; Providing technical assistance to other employees within CBP regarding real property acquisition and disposal actions, property utilization reviews, and Reports of Excess.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Have you acquired leasehold interests in space for assigned federal agencies requiring complex space requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you had experience in performing cost and price analyses of offers?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Select the choice which best represents your ability to analyze data related to government owned and government leased real property.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others who were responsible for analyzing data related to government owned and government leased real property.
 C. I have had some experience in analyzing data related to government owned and government leased real property, primarily involving routine situations.
 D. I have had extensive experience in analyzing data related to government owned and government leased real property, involving both routine and complex situations.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience in preparing requests for lease proposals and negotiating offers for leased space.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others who were responsible for preparing requests for lease proposals and negotiating offers for leased space.
 C. I have had some experience in preparing requests for lease proposals and negotiating offers for leased space.
 D. I have had extensive experience in preparing requests for lease proposals and negotiating offers for leased space.
6. Have you served as a project manager for one or more lease construction projects?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in performing lease administration, including changing the amount and configuration of space, changing the lease's terms and conditions, effecting change of ownership, tax and operating cost escalations, coordinating with legal and other business lines on lease enforcement issues and file documentation, and handling estoppel certificates.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others who were responsible for performing the various elements of this task.
 C. I have had some experience in performing lease administration including one or more of the various elements of this task for routine leases.
 D. I have had experience in performing lease administration including most, if not all of the various elements of this task.
 E. I have had extensive experience in performing lease administration including all of the elements of this task for both routine and complex leases.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in identifying space requirements for an office or organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data and information that was used by others to identify space requirements for an office or organization.
 C. I have had some experience in identifying space requirements for an office or small organization, primarily in routine situations.
 D. I have had extensive experience in identifying agency space requirements for both small and large organizations involving both routine and complex situations.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience in completing market surveys.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others who were responsible for completing market surveys.
 C. I have had some experience completing in marketing surveys for some routine projects.
 D. I have had extensive experience completing in market surveys for both routine and complex projects.
10. Select the choice which best represents the extent of your knowledge of a wide range of real estate principles, concepts, and practices.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in real estate principles, concepts, and practices, but I have not had any on-the-job application of these principles, concepts, and practices.
 C. In addition to receiving relevant training, I have had some on-the-job experience in applying real estate principles, concepts, and practices.
 D. I have received extensive training in real estate principles, concepts, and practices, and I have had extensive experience in applying these principles, concepts, and practices on the job.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in negotiating with individuals and groups to obtain the desired effect regarding realty issues.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have observed and participated in negotiations with individuals and groups regarding realty issues.
 C. I have had some experience in negotiating with individuals and groups regarding realty issues of a routine nature.
 D. I have had extensive experience in negotiating with individuals and groups to resolve issues regarding complex realty projects.
12. Select the choice which best represents the extent of your knowledge of a range of acquisition rules, regulations, and procedures relating to the acquisition of real estate or leasehold interests in real estate.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received some training relative to contracting rules, regulations, and procedures for the acquisition of real estate or leasehold interests in real estate, but I have not applied this training in a job situation.
 C. In addition to receiving relevant training, I have had some on-the-job experience in applying this training to the acquisition of real estate or leasehold interests in real estate.
 D. I have had extensive experience in applying a knowledge of contracting rules, regulations, and procedures relating to the acquisition of real estate or leasehold interests in real estate.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in interpreting legal documents related to realty issues and concerns.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others responsible for interpreting legal documents related to realty issues and concerns.
 C. I have had some experience in interpreting legal documents related to routine realty issues.
 D. I have had extensive experience in interpreting legal documents for a wide variety of realty issues from routine to complex.
14. Have you been responsible for managing/overseeing the review of lease contracts and leasing actions?

 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Select the choice which best represents the extent of your experience in developing responses to protests and claims submitted against assigned projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others responsible for developing responses to protests and claims submitted against assigned projects.
 C. I have had some experience in developing responses to protests and claims submitted against assigned projects for some routine projects.
 D. I have had extensive experience in developing responses to protests and claims submitted against assigned projects of both routine and complex natures.
16. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate orally with all levels of managers, staff members, and outside groups.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with, and provided training for, staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have presented briefings on program areas to higher level managers or internal/external organizations or agencies.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high level conferences or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.
17. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written responses to requests for information, or I have edited non-technical writing from others.
 C. I have written policies, procedures, training manuals, or other technical materials.
 D. I have explained in writing the application of laws, regulations, precedents covering legal actions, or I have written congressional testimony that presented sensitive or controversial information.
18. Have you had experience in preparing lease amendments, acquisition plans, and justifications for other than full and open competition?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected