Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Chief of the Organization Design Management Branch)
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
25-MINT-12778009-ICTAP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a veteran that is eligible for consideration under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent in the federal service, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

-experience applying classification law, theories, principles, and practices with an understanding of the full range of interrelationships of human resources management programs sufficient to provide integrated solutions to position classification problems/issues
-experience applying communicative techniques in order to meet and deal tactfully and persuasively with others to resolve issues which are often controversial and sensitive in nature and to maintain harmonious relationships with all parties. Expert skills in consulting and facilitation techniques and methods.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Selective Factor

Do you have experience building, establishing, and standing up a full Classification Program to include expert skill in developing position descriptions, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)s, and directives, and conducting position reviews and desk audits, preparing final classification and Fair Labor Standard Act (FLSA) determinations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires knowledge of the concepts, objectives, principles, and regulations related to Position Management/Position Classification/Compensation services and the interrelationships among various HR programs to develop policy's, plans, procedures, and operating methods and provide a wide scope of HR services. Select the description that best represents your highest level of experience.
 A. I have experience as an HR MANAGER/SUPERVISOR, applying resource concepts, methods, and principles in the following specializations\: Position Management/Classification; Organizational Design/Restructuring. This experience demonstrates expert technical knowledge and responsibility for projects, policies, or programs and practices of a difficult nature covering major organizational or subject-matter areas.
 B. I have experience as a SENIOR LEVEL HR SPECIALIST/TEAM LEAD, analyzing issues related to the establishment of HR program goals, objectives and policies for Position Management/Classification; Organizational Design/Restructuring. This experience includes responsibility for developing guidance for local application and key involvement in design or implementation of HR operating programs.
 C. I have FULL PERFORMANCE LEVEL HR OPERATIONS OR POLICY experience, with responsibility for applying knowledge of existing Federal HR policies, guidance and practice to independently perform assignments in Position Management/Classification; Organizational Design/Restructuring.
 D. I have none of the experiences described above.
5. Which best describes your experience in conducting classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization?
 A. I have had education or training in conducting classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have conducted classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I have conducted classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 D. I have supervised performance of conducting classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 E. None of the above.
6. Which best describes your experience mentoring junior staff members in the area of classification and position management?
 A. I have had education or training mentoring junior staff members in the area of classification and position management, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have mentored junior staff members in the area of classification and position management on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I have mentored junior staff members in the area of classification and position management as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have supervised performance of mentoring junior staff members in the area of classification and position management or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 E. None of the above.
7. Which best describes your experience exercising considerable judgment in applying classification standards and other guidelines?
 A. I have had education or training exercising considerable judgment in applying classification standards and other guidelines, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have exercised considerable judgment in applying classification standards and other guidelines on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 C. I have exercised considerable judgement on applying classification standards and other guidelines as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 D. I have supervised performance of exercising considerable judgment in applying classification standards and other guidelines or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 E. None of the above
8. Which best describes your experience in conducting classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization?
 A. I have had education or training conducting classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have conducted classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I have conducted classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of conducting classification and position management assessments for areas within the organization or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise
 E. None of the above.
9. Which best describes your experience in providing authoritative technical assistance and solutions to complex human resources classification issues referred by the organization's HR community?
 A. I have had education or training in providing authoritative technical assistance and solutions to complex human resources classification issues referred by the organization's HR community, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have provided authoritative technical assistance and solutions to complex human resources classification issues referred by the organization's HR community on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I have provided authoritative technical assistance and solutions to complex human resources classification issues referred by the organization's HR community as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have supervised performance of providing authoritative technical assistance and solutions to complex human resources classification issues referred by the organization's HR community or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise
 E. None of the above.
10. Which best describes your experience in promoting or developing good working relationships with managers, supervisors, and employees?
 A. I have had education or training in promoting or developing good working relationships with managers, supervisors, and employees, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have promoted or developed good working relationships with managers, supervisors, and employees on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 C. I have promoted or developed good working relationships with managers, supervisors, and employees as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 D. I have supervised performance promoting or developing good working relationships with managers, supervisors, and employees or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 E. None of the above.
11. Which best describes your experience in analyzing the impact of new and existing classification and position management requirements on field and national programs?
 A. I have had education or training in analyzing the impact of new and existing classification and position management requirements on field and national programs, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have analyzed the impact of new and existing classification and position management requirements on field and national programs on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 C. I have analyzed the impact of new and existing classification and position management requirements on field and national programs as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have supervised performance of analyzing the impact of new and existing classification and position management requirements on field and national programs or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 E. None of the above.
12. Which best describes your experience in ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, standards, policies, procedures, and other guidelines?
 A. I have had education or training in ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, standards, policies, procedures, and other guidelines, but I have not yet performed it on the job
 B. I have ensured compliance with laws, regulations, standards, policies, procedures, and other guidelines, on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 C. I have ensured compliance with laws, regulations, standards, policies, procedures, and other guidelines as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee. and normally
 D. I have supervised performance of ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, standards, policies, procedures, and other guidelines, or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 E. None of the above.
13. Which best describes your experience in explaining recommendations and determinations, and defusing/ resolving situations or disputes over decisions?
 A. I have had education or training in explaining recommendations and determinations, and defusing/ resolving situations or disputes over decisions, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 B. I have explained recommendations and determinations, and defused/ resolved situations or disputes over decisions on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I have explained recommendations and determinations, and defused/ resolved situations or disputes over decisions as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have supervised performance of explaining recommendations and determinations, and defusing/ resolving situations or disputes over decisions this task or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 E. None of the above
14. Which best describes your experience ensuring that work in progress is in line with functional responsibilities and is aimed at achieving established mission objectives?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in ensuring that work in progress is in line with functional responsibilities and is aimed at achieving established mission objectives.
 B. I have had education or training in ensuring that work in progress is in line with functional responsibilities and is aimed at achieving established mission objectives, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have experience ensuring that work in progress is in line with functional responsibilities and is aimed at achieving established mission objectives on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience ensuring that work in progress is in line with functional responsibilities and is aimed at achieving established mission objectives as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of ensuring that work in progress is in line with functional responsibilities and is aimed at achieving established mission objectives or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
15. Which best describes your experience Implementing ways to eliminate or reduce significant bottlenecks and barriers to production, promote team building, or improve business practices?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in implementing ways to eliminate or reduce significant bottlenecks and barriers to production, promote team building, or improve business practices
 B. I have had education or training in implementing ways to eliminate or reduce significant bottlenecks and barriers to production, promote team building, or improve business practices, but have not yet performed it on the job
 C. I have implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant bottlenecks and barriers to production, promote team building, or improve business practices on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant bottlenecks and barriers to production, promote team building, or improve business practices as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of implementing ways to eliminate or reduce significant bottlenecks and barriers to production, promote team building, or improve business practices or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
16. Which best describes your experience developing policies or guidelines for classification, position management, and compensation programs?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience developing policies or guidelines for classification, position management, and compensation programs
 B. I have had education or training in developing policies or guidelines for classification, position management, and compensation programs, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have developed policies or guidelines for classification, position management, and compensation programs on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 D. I have developed policies or guidelines for classification, position management, and compensation programs as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of developing policies or guidelines for classification, position management, and compensation programs this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
17. Which best describes your experience providing management advisory services to top management officials and supervises employees engaged in providing classification, position management, and compensation?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in providing management advisory services to top management officials and supervises employees engaged in providing classification, position management, and compensation
 B. I have had education or training in providing management advisory services to top management officials and supervises employees engaged in providing classification, position management, and compensation, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have experience providing management advisory services to top management officials and supervises employees engaged in providing classification, position management, and compensation on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience providing management advisory services to top management officials and supervises employees engaged in providing classification, position management, and compensation as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of providing management advisory services to top management officials and supervises employees engaged in providing classification, position management, and compensation this or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
18. Which best describes your experience making decisions on work problems presented by subordinate staff?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience making decisions on work problems presented by subordinate staff.
 B. I have had education or training in how to make decisions on work problems presented by subordinate staff, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have experience making decisions on work problems presented by subordinate staff on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience making decisions on work problems presented by subordinate staff as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of those making decisions on work problems presented by subordinate staff or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
19. Which best describes your experience ensuring that training, awards, discipline, and promotion actions are administered in a nondiscriminatory manner?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience ensuring that training, awards, discipline, and promotion actions are administered in a nondiscriminatory manner.
 B. I have had education or training ensuring that training, awards, discipline, and promotion actions are administered in a nondiscriminatory manner, but have not yet performed it on the job
 C. I have experience ensuring that training, awards, discipline, and promotion actions are administered in a nondiscriminatory manner on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures
 D. I have xperience ensuring that training, awards, discipline, and promotion actions are administered in a nondiscriminatory manner as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of ensuring that training, awards, discipline, and promotion actions are administered in a nondiscriminatory manner or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
20. Which best describes your experience ensuring that adequate internal control systems are developed and operative so that government resources are efficiently and effectively managed in accordance with appropriate guidance?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience ensuring that adequate internal control systems are developed and operative so that government resources are efficiently and effectively managed in accordance with appropriate guidance
 B. I have had education or training ensuring that adequate internal control systems are developed and operative so that government resources are efficiently and effectively managed in accordance with appropriate guidance, but have not yet performed it on the job
 C. I have experience ensuring that adequate internal control systems are developed and operative so that government resources are efficiently and effectively managed in accordance with appropriate guidance on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience ensuring that adequate internal control systems are developed and operative so that government refficiently and effectively managed in accordance with appropriate guidance performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of ensuring that adequate internal control systems are developed and operative so that government resources are efficiently and effectively managed in accordance with appropriate guidance or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing because of my expertise.
21. Which best describes your experience developing policies, regulations, procedures, schedules, and management and reporting systems designed, for effective program accomplishment and program evaluation?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience developing policies, regulations, procedures, schedules, and management and reporting systems designed for effective program accomplishment and program evaluation
 B. I have had education or training developing policies, regulations, procedures, schedules, and management and reporting systems designed for effective program accomplishment and program evaluation, but have not yet performed it on the job
 C. I have developed policies, regulations, procedures, schedules, and management and reporting systems designed for effective program accomplishment and program evaluation on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have developed policies, regulations, procedures, schedules, and management and reporting systems designed for effect accomplishment and program evaluation as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of developing policies, regulations, procedures, schedules, and management and reporting systems designed for effective program accomplishment and program evaluation or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
22. Which best describes your experience making selections for vacant subordinate positions?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience making selections for vacant subordinate positions.
 B. I have had education or training in how to make selections for vacant subordinate positions perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have experience making selections for vacant subordinate positions on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience making selections for vacant subordinate positions as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of making selections for vacant subordinate positions or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
23. Which best describes your experience making decisions on non-routine, costly and/or controversial training needs and training requests related to employees in the Division?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience making decisions on non-routine, costly and/or controversial training needs and training requests related to employees in the Division.
 B. I have had education or training in how to mak decisions on nonroutine, costly and/or controversial training needs and training requests related to employees in the Division but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have experience making decisions on non-routine, costly and/or controversial training needs and training requests related to employees in the Division on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience making decisions on non-routine, costly and/or controversial training needs and training requests related to employees in the Division as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of making decisions on non-routine, costly and/or controversial training needs and training requests related to employees in the Division or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
24. Which best describes your experience reviewing organizational structure for potential reengineering positions for recruitment, removal of artificial barriers, and for ladders for progression?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience reviewing organizational structure for potential reengineering positions for recruitment, removal of artificial barriers, and for ladders for progression.
 B. I have had education or training reviewing organizational structure for potential reengineering positions for recruitment, removal of artificial barriers, and for ladders for progression, but have not yet performed it on the job
 C. I have experience reviewing organizational structure for potential reengineering positions for recruitment, removal of artificial barriers, and for ladders for progression performed on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have experience reviewing organizational structure for potential reengineering positions for recruitment, removal of artificial barriers, and for ladders for progression as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of reviewing organizational structure for potential reengineering positions for recruitment, removal of artificial barriers, and for ladders for progression or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in
25. From the list below, select the subject area(s) in which you have experience interpreting and applying laws, regulations, guidelines, and resolving problems.
 A. Position Management
 B. Position Classification
 C. FLSA Determinations
 D. Desk Audits
 E. Organizational Realignments
 F. Organizational Restructuring
 G. Classification Appeals
 H. Workforce Planning
 I. General Schedule
 J. Compensation Management
 K. Federal Wage System
 L. Law Enforcement Officers
 M. Other Alternative Pay Systems
 N. None of the above
26. Please select the responses that describe the leadership functions you have performed
 A. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 B. I have led a team in the completion of a work project or assignment. (
 C. I have followed up with team members to ensure timeliness in meeting milestones
 D. I have planned work assignments to be assigned to team members.
 E. I have reported progress to management.
 F. I have resolved conflicts, differences or problems among team members
 G. I have reviewed completed work for quality and timeliness.
 H. I have set goals, milestones and expectations
 I. I have led reprioritization of work to ensure deadlines were met
 J. I have created an environment that encouraged others to meet goals and/or mission requirements
 K. I have facilitated cooperation and mutual assistance across the organization.
 L. I have built consensus among diverse viewpoints
 M. I have provided recommendations to team members in the appropriate problem solving techniques
 N. None of the above.
27. Select all the answer(s) that best describe your experience identifying and analyzing problems, making logical decision, and providing solutions. Check all that apply.
 A. Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make informed recommendations.
 B. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving.
 C. Developed policies, procedures, and plans for meeting an organization's goals and objectives
 D. Independently interpreted and applied statutes and regulations to resolve problems and issues.
 E. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. Analyses are used to explain or justify decision, conclusions, findings and recommendations.
 F. Developed comprehensive material for reports, briefings or meetings of senior management officials.
 G. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected