Position Title
Maintenance Crew Supervisor (CF-I)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH250402571753DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position has a requirement to lift up to 45lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This is a Temporary position intended to last 1 year. A temporary position may be extended to a maximum of three years and may be terminated at any time during the duration of the appointment, depending upon the needs of management. Are you available for temporary employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Crew Supervisor, WB-4701-00 (CF-I), position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Crew Supervisor, WB-4701-00 (CF-I), duties without more than normal supervision.
 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties planning for the accomplishment of installation, maintenance, repair and overhaul of heavy industrial and auxiliary machinery and equipment, requiring familiarity with servicing schedules. I am able to meet emergency situations and to assist in determining current and the next year needs in regards to manpower, funds, equipment, and materials. I am skilled in scheduling work assignments on a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly basis. I am skilled in establishing clear roles and responsibilities for all personnel through written and verbal communication. I am skilled in administering personnel actions such as counseling, performance appraisals, Individual Development Plans (IDP's), training, awards, and travel. I am skilled in addressing performance and conduct issues. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of duties planning for the accomplishment of installation, maintenance, repair and overhaul of heavy industrial and auxiliary machinery and equipment. I have the ability to transmit requirements into work assignments to the crew, furnish advice, guidance and direction, and assure adherence to safety directives and practices, secure necessary supplies and equipment to assure meeting work schedule requirements and accomplishing necessary personnel administration. I am skilled in scheduling work assignments on a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly basis. I am skilled in developing employees through active mentoring. I am skilled in establishing clear roles and responsibilities for all personnel through written and verbal communication. I am skilled in administering personnel actions such as counseling, performance appraisals, IDP's, training, awards, travel etc. I am skilled in addressing performance and conduct issues. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common duties of supervising journey level Power Plant Mechanic and Power Plant Electrician personnel. I have skill and knowledge in working with complex mechanical and electrical systems and the ability to direct the use of tools related to those systems. I am able to transmit instructions into work assignments for assigned crew and set the pace for work accomplishment. I have the ability to explain and instruct lower graded journeymen and to keep work progressing to meet schedule. I am able to inspect, accept or reject work of others and assure adherence to safety regulations and practices. I have the ability to perform common duties supervising journeyman level personnel. I can schedule work assignments on a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly basis. I can develop employees through active mentoring, to establish clear roles and responsibilities for all personnel through written and verbal communication. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple duties directing one or two helpers or lower graded journeymen furnishing guidance and instructions and to explain how and what tasks are to be done in accomplishing the simple tasks. I have the ability to perform simple duties supervising entry level personnel or I have received training on scheduling work assignments on a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly basis. I have received training on developing employees. I have received training on establishing roles and responsibilities for personnel through written and verbal communications. I have received training on administering personnel actions. I have received training on addressing performance and conduct issues. I have received training on keeping accurate records of subordinates work assignments, work hours and leave taken. I have received training on forecasting future staffing needs. I have received training on setting deadlines, and work sequences for individual workers. I have received training on adjusting procedures and sequence of operations as necessary.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected