Position Title
Interdisciplinary General Engineer, Physicist, Operations Research Analyst, or Computer Scientist)
Agency
Naval Air Systems Command
Announcement Number
ST-12806540-25-MC Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 26, 2025 to Monday, September 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a retired civil service federal employee seeking reemployment?

If yes, you are required to submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 (or equivalent). In addition, you must select another eligibility (e.g., Former Federal Employee, VEOA, etc.) for which you can claim on this job opportunity announcement.

Failure to select another eligibility will make you ineligible for consideration.

The Department of Defense (DoD) and Department of Navy (DON) policy on employment of annuitants will be used in determining eligibility of annuitants. Annuitants reemployed in the Department of Defense receive full annuity and salary upon appointment. They are not eligible for retirement contributions, to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan, nor to a supplemental or re-determined annuity for the reemployment period. Discontinued service retirement annuitants (i.e. retired under section 8336(d)(1) or 8416(b)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code) appointed to the Department of Defense may elect to be subject to retirement provisions of the new appointment, as appropriate.

Policy information may be found at: http://www.secnav.navy.mil/donhr/Documents/CivilianJobs/FedCivAnnuitants.pdf


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is appointable under Non-Competitive EO 13473 Civil Service Appointment of Military Spouses?

You are eligible if you:
Are married to an active duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days OR
Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service connected injury OR
Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty.

You are required to support your claim with the documents below:

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate).
AND
If you are married to an active duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active duty service for more than 180 consecutive days
OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter)
OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300).

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment if eligible based on 100% disability due to service or as an un-remarried widow/widower of a service member killed while on active duty.

For more information please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. 

Failure to provide documentation that fully supports your claim will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Defense?

If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.
If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim for interagency career transition assistance including 1) a copy of your agency notice, 2) a copy of your most recent performance appraisal, AND 3) a copy of your most recent SF-50 or notification of personnel action that includes position, grade level, and duty location.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. 
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability as defined in 5 CFR 213.3102(u)? The Department of the Navy encourages persons with disabilities to apply!

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a letter or certification from a physician, or local, state, or federal rehabilitation office. The letter/certification must be on office letterhead and clearly state your eligibility for the appointing authority under 5 CFR 213.3102 (u). A sample letter can be found here. Failure to submit this documentation with your application will result in a rating of ineligible. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following:

I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  Spouses may exercise their spouse preference and priority status through the application-based process up to 30 calendar days prior to the military sponsor's reporting date to the new duty station or upon relocation anytime thereafter during the sponsor's tour. Spouses who do not initially relocate with their sponsor cannot exercise spouse preference and priority status until they are actually residing in the commuting area of the sponsor's duty station.

NOTE 3:  You must include a completed copy of the UPDATED Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist found here along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP. Acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility includes at a minimum: A copy of the PCS orders, and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1310 - Physics
 C. 1515 - Operations Research
 D. 1550 - Computer Science
2. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
--Select-- 
--Select--
National Call to Maritime Service/Fleet Week
Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
Email from the Department of the Navy
LinkedIn
CareerBuilder.com
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Facebook
X (Formerly known as Twitter)
USAJOBS website
Job Supervisor
A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
Contract employee
College/University Career Placement Office
College Alumni
Employment Office
Newspaper Advertisement
Job Career Fair
American Association of People with Disabilities
National Association of Asian American Professionals
2024 Federal Interagency Military Spouse Career Expo
4. Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a Top Secret clearance.
Note: If you are a PPP applicant exercising your priority status, you must currently possess the required security clearance. If you select yes below, you are certifying that you currently possess the required security clearance.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently certified in the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) Program in an Acquisition Functional Area and certification category?

NOTE: If you are currently certified, please note this information in your resume.

For more information, please visit https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/CareerLvl.aspx
 A. Yes, I am certified in the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) Program in an Acquisition Functional Area and certification category.
 B. No, but I am willing to obtain certification within established timeframes.
3. Are you currently qualified in the Cyberspace Workforce work role and proficiency level listed for this position in the announcement?

NOTE: If you are qualified in a different work role or at a different proficiency level, please note this information in your resume.

For more information, please visit https://www.doncio.navy.mil/contentview.aspx?id=7991
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires that the selectee complete and pass a pre-employment drug test. I am willing and able to complete and pass a pre-employment drug test.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirement for the GS-0801, Professional Engineering Series.
 A. I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 B. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (I) Professional registration or licensure: Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration; or (II) Written Test: Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico; or (III) Specified academic courses: Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A (above). The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A (above); or (IV) Related curriculum: Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least one year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily, there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions.
 C. I do not have an engineering degree or an acceptable combination of education and experience as described above.
2. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirement for the GS-1310, Professional Physics Series.

 A. I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree or higher in physics, or a related degree that included at least 24 semester hours in physics. Courses must have included a fundamental course in general physics and, in addition, course in any of two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in physics totaling at least 24 semester hours, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Courses must have included a fundamental course in general physics and, in addition, course in any of two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 C. I do not have a degree in physics or a related degree, or an acceptable combination of education and experience as described above.
3. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirement for the GS-1515, Professional Operations Research Series.
 A. I have a bachelor's or higher degree in operations research.
 B. I have successfully completed a bachelor's or higher degree with at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics and at least 3 of the 24 semester hours are in calculus.
 C. I do not have the education described above.
4. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirement for the GS-1550, Professional Computer Science Series.

 A. I have a bachelor’s degree in computer science.
 B. I have a bachelor's or higher degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of my 30 semester hours were in a combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus.
 C. I do not have the education described above.
5. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a DP-0801 General Engineer; 1310 Physicist, 1515 Operations Research Analyst, or 1550 Computer Scientist.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (DP-04) or grade level (GS-12/13) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector as a professional GENERAL ENGINEER; PHYSICIST; OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYST; COMPUTER SCIENTIST performing duties such as: - Evaluating systems engineering and techniques for management of RF and antennas development support efforts. - Supporting airborne antenna concepts, RF concepts, operational capabilities/limitations and the ability to recommend how they should be employed by fleet users. The incumbent must be able to assess performance requirements against operational requirements and accurately provide mission relation. - Verifying government acquisition and contract policies, rules, and regulations and forecasting previously unforeseen requirements, interrelationships, and military effects of systems. -Formulating, directing, interpreting, and applying test planning, policy, and strategy to ensure scientific validity, adequacy, and efficiency of ground and flight test projects. - Applying new developments or experimental theory to problems or situations not covered by accepted or conventional techniques.
 B. I do not have the experience and/or education described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected