Position Title
Health Technician (Audiology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12820425-26-DM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Wednesday, November 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your application package will be reviewed to verify answers. Please ensure your resume clearly reflects specific details of experience, lists complete dates of employment, and indicates if the employment was part time (list hours per week) or Full time to properly credit your experience. Resume/CV required Resume: Your resume should include the following information for each job that you list: Job title; Complete Workplace Addresses; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time, part-time status (include hours worked per week). Example: Chyco Hearing Center, 1234 Anywhere USA 0640 Health Technician (Audiology) 3/10/2020-present Full time administer audiometric test, and perform otoscopic examination of ear canals to ensure there are no medical contraindications to testing. counsel patients on the results of the testing and document and accurately file hearing evaluation results, referrals, and pertinent data in patient health records. perform daily functional checks an biological calibration procedures on audiometric equipment. fit and dispense hearing protection devices and maintain a variety of sizes and types of hearing protection devices. provide administrative support to the audiologist. Helpful training links: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XeSxzezvY8 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XeSxzezvY8) Applying to federal jobs and how it works What to include on a FEDERAL resume - YouTube (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnNVCZ-e_Qc) Federal resume training https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HY5Z_pfFUK4 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HY5Z_pfFUK4) Looking for jobs and applying to Fed jobs https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-fYgeDJpYI (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-fYgeDJpYI) The Federal Employment Process: Resources and Frequently Asked


The following are requirements for appointment as a Health Technician (Audiology) (HTA), in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA HTA, HTSLP and HTASLP in the General Schedule (GS) 0640 series, including those assigned to VA medical centers, Community-Based Outpatient Clinics, Vet Centers, Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) offices and VHA Central Office. This work may include the provision of a wide array of clinical rehabilitation services to support Veterans with disabilities reintegration into community, employment and independent living.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Health Technician (Audiology) must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U. S. C. 7403(f). Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS HEALTH TECHNICIAN (AUDIOLOGY):

Six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. OR

Successful completion of two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position. 
OR

Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. An example of a combination of experience/education is three months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours related to the health care industry.

NOTE: Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs. Note: If you are basing your qualification on education or a combination of education/experience a Transcript must be uploaded to verify qualification.

Do you meet the basic requirements as describe above?
 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills and abilities associated with current HTA, HTSLP or HTASLP practice. Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or nonpaid employment as a health technician in the health care field. Quality of Experience. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to HTA, experience at the next lower grade level of the position being filled. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Part-time Experience: Part-time experience is creditable according to its relationship to a full-time workweek. For example, an individual employed 20 hours per week, or on a half time basis, would receive one full-time work week of credit for each two weeks of service. Grade Determinations. The following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates:


3.
GS-7 HEALTH TECHNICIAN (AUDIOLOGY) Grade Requirements:

 Completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled. AND Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs clearly in the resume: Ability to mentor and train new HTAs. Ability to prepare patients for advanced testing procedures performed by the audiologist, such as evoked potentials. Ability to develop and implement the technician role for a program in a focused area of audiology. Do you possess the experience and KSAs described in the paragraph above?
 Does not meet the specialized experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙