Position Title
Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatch)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-FIRE-P1VA-IADISP-4567DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Montgomery, AL
 B. Anchorage, AK
 C. Juneau, AK
 D. Ketchikan, AK
 E. Flagstaff, AZ
 F. Mesa, AZ
 G. Prescott, AZ
 H. Springerville, AZ
 I. Tucson, AZ
 J. Williams, AZ
 K. Hot Springs, AR
 L. Durango, CO
 M. Grand Junction, CO
 N. Johnstown, CO
 O. Lakewood, CO
 P. Montrose, CO
 Q. Pueblo, CO
 R. Tallahassee, FL
 S. Gainesville, GA
 T. Boise, ID
 U. Coeur d'Alene, ID
 V. Grangeville, ID
 W. Idaho Falls, ID
 X. McCall, ID
 Y. Salmon, ID
 Z. Shoshone, ID
 AA. Murphysboro, IL
 AB. Tell City, IN
 AC. Winchester, KY
 AD. Pineville, LA
 AE. Cadillac, MI
 AF. Grand Rapids, MN
 AG. Jackson, MS
 AH. Rolla, MO
 AI. Billings, MT
 AJ. Dillon, MT
 AK. Hamilton, MT
 AL. Helena, MT
 AM. Kalispell, MT
 AN. Libby, MT
 AO. Missoula, MT
 AP. Carson City, NV
 AQ. Elko, NV
 AR. Ely, NV
 AS. Las Vegas, NV
 AT. Winnemucca, NV
 AU. Campton, NH
 AV. Alamogordo, NM
 AW. Albuquerque, NM
 AX. Santa Fe, NM
 AY. Silver City, NM
 AZ. Taos, NM
 BA. Asheville, NC
 BB. Hines, OR
 BC. John Day, OR
 BD. La Grande, OR
 BE. Lakeview, OR
 BF. Medford, OR
 BG. Redmond, OR
 BH. Roseburg, OR
 BI. Springfield, OR
 BJ. Harrisburg, PA
 BK. Rio Grande, PR
 BL. Columbia, SC
 BM. New Ellenton, SC
 BN. Rapid City, SD
 BO. Cleveland, TN
 BP. Lufkin, TX
 BQ. Cedar City, UT
 BR. Draper, UT
 BS. Moab, UT
 BT. Price, UT
 BU. Richfield, UT
 BV. South Weber, UT
 BW. Vernal, UT
 BX. Charlottesville, VA
 BY. Colville, WA
 BZ. East Wenatchee, WA
 CA. Everett, WA
 CB. Vancouver, WA
 CC. Harpers Ferry, WV
 CD. Rhinelander, WI
 CE. Casper, WY
 CF. Cody, WY
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
3. Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.

4. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your eligibility for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. THE RESUME AND APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM.
1. Do you have experience performing on-the-line (Primary/Rigorous) wildland fire suppression duties as a member of an organized fire suppression crew or comparable unit that utilized knowledge of wildland fire suppression, containment or control techniques and practices under various conditions? This experience must be documented with specific dates in the online application or resume.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-04 level of this GW-0462 Forestry Technician (Dispatch) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position
 A. I have 6 months of general experience. Examples include: Performed farm/ranch labor, such as feeding/tending livestock or general maintenance of farm/ranch facilities and/or worked in a greenhouse, nursery or landscaping e.g., planting, moving, watering, and tending plants and/or animal caretaker in a laboratory, zoo or pet store and/or volunteer work at a park, hospital, community sports league, local fire department, etc. AND at least 6 months of specialized experience. Examples of specialized experience include: Assisted in filing and retrieving documents and/or Assisted in receiving and processing requests for equipment, personnel, and supplies in conjunction with emergency incidents.
 B. I have successfully completed 2 years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in any combination of courses such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science (no more than 3 semester hours in mathematics is creditable). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 C. I have an appropriate combination of experience and education above high school as described above. The education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university and include courses that are related to the occupation of the position.
 D. I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.
3. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-05 level of this GW-0462 Forestry Technician (Dispatch) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-04 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Serving as a dispatcher and/or radio operator performing the full range of standardized support duties commonly found in the work area, such as receiving, filling, and tracking resource requests for fire and other emergency incidents and/or Maintains resource status and tracking systems and operates telecommunications systems and/or Serving as a dispatcher and/or radio operator for fire and other emergency incidents and/or Processes weather information and/or Inputs data into a number of fire-related computer applications.
 B. I have a bachelor's degree or 4 years of successfully completed education above high school (120 semester/180 quarter hours) with major study in forestry, range management, agriculture, or a subject-matter field directly related to the position, or that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources, outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science (no more than 6 semester hours in mathematics is creditable). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 C. I have combinations of successfully completed post-high school education (in excess of the first 60 semester/90 quarter hours) and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 D. I do not meet or exceed the requirements are described above.
4. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-06 level of this GW-0462 Forestry Technician (Dispatch) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-05 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Serving as a dispatcher, receiving, filling, and tracking resource requests for fire and other emergency incidents and/or Coordinates wildland fire and other daily operational situations to ensure adequate quantities of resources are available and/or Processes weather and smoke management information into fire related computer programs or databases and/or Performs work using a Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system and/or Operates and/or directs the operation of various dispatch telecommunication systems and/or Coordinates with other dispatching organizations on the mobilization, reassignment, and maintains resource status and tracking systems.
 B. I have one full year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level coursework that is directly related to the work of the position (such as forestry, range management, agriculture). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 C. I have combinations of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 D. I do not meet or exceed the requirements are described above.
5. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-07 level of this GW-0462 Forestry Technician (Dispatch) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-06 level. Examples of specialized experience includes: Determining the appropriate personnel and resource composition to respond to wildland fires or emergencies, as the situation demands and/or reassigning resources to address changing needs, such as in cases of multiple wildland or prescribed fires and/or coordinating aviation dispatch operations (e.g., aircraft capabilities and limitations, flight planning, aviation safety) and operating and/or directing the operation of various dispatch telecommunication systems and/or Manages and directs adherence of law enforcement dispatch protocols and procedures and/or Plans and carries out fire program management projects in accordance with fire management objectives and policies.
 B. I have one full year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level coursework that is directly related to the work of the position (such as forestry, range management, agriculture). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 C. I have combinations of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 D. I do not meet or exceed the requirements are described above.
6. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected