Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12811951-26-SH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 20, 2025 to Thursday, October 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. NOTE: Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for certification may be given a temporary appointment up to the full performance level not to exceed two years as a graduate clinical laboratory scientist.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 USC 7403(f)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education. A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:

(1) Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Science (NAACLS)-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program. OR

(2) The applicant submits a letter from American Society for Clinical Pathology Board of Certification (ASCP BOC) or  American Medical Technologist (AMT) stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.

Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's degree. Otherwise, indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:

Please provide the following information regarding the clinical practice program you completed or are currently completing (if applicable). Otherwise, indicate N/A.

Clinical Practice Program:



4.
Certification: Candidates must meet one of the certification options below.

(a) Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
(b) Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
(c) Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.

Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements of this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:

(1) Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.

(2) If an assignment above the FPL requires an additional certification over and above the basic requirements, employees must meet the assignment-specific requirement before they can be promoted.

(3) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.

(4) Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.

(5) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain certification that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
 I possess a generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I possess a generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 I possess a categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 I am not certified but expect to become certified within two years.
 No, however, I am covered under Grandfathering Provisions that all persons employed in VHA as a CLS as of December 3, 2024, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
 None of the above


5.
Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified within two years indicate N/A.

Otherwise, indicate:

Type of Certification(s) and numbers:
Month and Year Certified/Expected Certification Date:
Accrediting Body:



6.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11. (1) Experience or Education Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

(a) Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
OR
(b) Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science

 I possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9), which is directly related to the position to be filled.
 I possess 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I do not possess creditable experience or higher-level education reflected in answers A and B.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11: Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
(c) Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
(d) Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
(e) Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
(f) Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
(g) Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

Do you possess the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities listed above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙