Position Title
Physician Assistant (Occupational Health)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT2612812144DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Physician Assistant position with the Department of Defense, Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Physician Assistant at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have graduated from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
The Physician Assistant occupation requires successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination. Have you successfully completed the NCCPA examination and maintain status as a certified physician assistant to include completion of all requirements for continuing medical education (CME) and re-certification? (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)

 Yes
 No


3.
The Physician Assistant occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? (Note: You must attach a copy of your licensure.)

 Yes
 I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0603 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 No


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Physician Assistant at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes obtaining patient medical history; performing medical examinations; diagnosing medical conditions; determining appropriate medical treatment; prescribing medications; and ordering and/or interpreting diagnostic tests.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


5.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙