Position Title
Child & Youth Program School Liaison Officer
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12755185 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Saturday, July 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Internal Applicant
1. Are you a current Non-appropriated (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program School Liaison Officer. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A. Successful completion of a 4 year college or university degree with a major course of study or substantial course work which directly relates to a CYP field: Early Childhood, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a closely related field AND a minimum of 3 years of experience working with school personnel, students and parents (i.e., School Liaison Officer, CYP Manager, education or academic leader/counselor).
 B. A combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 hours) appropriate to the position (see above), plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above.
 C. I have none of the above.
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have a Master’s degree in ECE, Elementary or Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a related field of study.
 B. I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Elementary or Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a related field of study.
 C. I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 D. I have none of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in conducting program evaluations (e.g., research interviews, focus groups, working groups, and surveys), including data collection and analysis to formulate recommendations in early childhood, elementary, and secondary education?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 D. I have no experience in the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have in preparing and presenting program briefings (e.g., presentations, lesson plans, trainings, evaluation of training, and/or orientations) to K-12 professionals or other adults in a classroom or professional forum?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in preparing and presenting information to adults, as described above.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in preparing and presenting information to adults, as described above.
 C. I have less than 1 year of experience in preparing and presenting information, as described above.
 D. I have no experience in the above.
5. Have you ever held a School Liaison Officer (SLO) position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 A. Yes, I have held an SLO position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. No, I have not held an SLO position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected