Position Title
IT Specialist (Software Developer/ Web Developer)
Agency
Supreme Court of the United States
Announcement Number
SCOTUS-12772464-IT Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Monday, September 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you have a college degree?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current employee of the Supreme Court of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
All applicants are required to submit a cover letter and resume in order to be eligible for consideration. Please note that generic or re-used cover letters will not be accepted; resumes may be in any format.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Is a resume and cover letter included as part of your application package?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have a college degree (in computer science or a related technical field) or equivalent experience?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have a minimum of three years technical experience in web based software development activities?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have experience with Azure DevOps, JavaScript (and JavaScript frameworks), Microsoft .NET (C#), Microsoft SQL Server?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Narrative responses must directly address the subject of the question asked. Comments such as "see resume" will not be accepted.
5. Describe the experience you have gathering software requirements from and providing technical assistance to computer users and any experience you have developing web applications using Microsoft tools and technologies. (limit 1,000 characters)
6. Describe your experience working with, managing or using Microsoft Azure DevOps. (limit 1,000 characters)
7. Describe your experience working with Microsoft .NET (C#), JavaScript (and JavaScript frameworks), CSS or other web programming languages. (limit 1,000 characters)
8. Describe your experience, if any, with SQL Server, VB.NET or other programming languages. (limit 1,000 characters)
9. Describe your experience in managing multiple projects simultaneously, meeting goals and deadlines and the ability to work with minimum guidance. (limit 1,000 characters)
10. Describe a work situation that demonstrates your interpersonal and communication skills, your ability to communicate and understand technical information, evaluate problems, and assist users. (limit 1,000 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected