Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1549-REDW-25-12792279-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Utility Systems Repairer-Operator WG-4742-09 position for Redwood National and State Parks. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully read the instructions before submitting your responses. The resume or application materials you submit must support the answers you provide on the questionnaire. If they do not, you may be found not qualified, or you may be placed in a lower quality category.
ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF A UTILITY SYSTEMS REPAIRER OPERATOR, WG-4742-09 WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION (SCREEN OUT).
1. From the description below, select the one statement that best describes your ability to do the work of a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator WG-4742-09, without more than normal supervision. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet the requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

Perform work at the journeyman level completing the most complex and unusual tasks of a Utility Systems Repairer Operator. Independently oversee the operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of water and/or wastewater treatment facilities, water distribution systems, and/or wastewater treatment collection systems. Oversee the operation, maintenance, and rehabilitation of potable water pumping, storage, transmission, treatment, and local distribution systems, wastewater collection and pumping systems; reclaim water pumping, storage, transmission systems; and/or chlorination systems. Oversee the operation, maintenance, and
rehabilitation of water treatment facilities.
 A. I am able to independently perform the most difficult and complex Utility Systems Repairer- Operator tasks listed above as well as lead and instruct others.
 B. I am able to perform the full range of Utility Systems Repairer- Operator tasks listed above with little or no supervision.
 C. I am able to perform the full range of Utility Systems Repairer- Operator tasks listed above under normal supervision.
 D. I do not have the experience or on-the-job training to perform these tasks.
Selective Placement Factor (Screen Out) - Water Treatment Certification.
2. You must possess a Water Treatment Certification from any state or territory within the United States by closing date of this announcement. Please select the response that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position. You must provide documentation of how you meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.
 A. I currently possess a Water Treatment Certification from any state or territory within the United States. (You MUST provide your certification/license within your application).
 B. No, I do not currently have the required certifications.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected