Position Title
Electrical Engineer (Operations and/or Transmission Planning)
Agency
Western Area Power Administration
Announcement Number
25-WA-00694-12797623-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Wednesday, September 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of:

--a member of the armed forces serving on active duty;
--a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR
--a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower)?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/military-spouses/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
3. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
COEs and Specialized Experience
1. GS-12: Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level or band in the Federal service. This experience includes experience in either item 1 or item 2: (1) Experience with building and maintaining High Voltage Electrical models used in State Estimator (SE), Contingency Analysis (CA) or Power Flow (PF) Studies, OR (2) Experience supporting any of the following: SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisitions) systems, Automatic Generation and Control (AGC), Inter Control Center Protocol (ICCP), AVEVA (OSISoft) PI (Plant Interface) Historian software or other vendors' advanced applications suites.
 B. I do not meet the requirements as described above.
2. GS-13: Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level or band in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience in item 1 OR 2 AND item 3 (2 out of 3) of the following: (1) Building and maintaining High Voltage Electrical models used in State Estimator (SE), Contingency Analysis (CA) or Power Flow (PF) Studies, OR (2) Supporting any of the following: SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisitions) systems, Automatic Generation and Control (AGC), Inter Control Center Protocol (ICCP), AVEVA (OSISoft) PI (Plant Interface) Historian software or other vendors' advanced applications suites, AND (3) Technical leadership experience guiding peers, lower graded engineers or IT personnel solving issues, researching new technology, or innovative efforts.
 B. I do not meet the requirements as described above.
3. I understand that this position requires on-call duty.  The incumbent must be able to respond-perform work condition within one-half hour travel time of their primary place of residence.
 A. Yes
 B. No
DRP, Resume, Admin Leave Questions
1. I understand that I will be rated on the following competencies based on the information I provide in the first 2-pages of my resume:
Electrical Engineering
Configuration Management
Systems Testing and Evaluation
Planning and Evaluating (GS-13 only)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Department of Energy employee who accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) either through OPM's Fork in the Road or through DOE's DRP?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who accepted the DRP through resignation or retirement.
 B. No, I am not a DOE DRP participant.
3. Are you a Department of Energy employee who is currently on Administrative leave?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who is currently on DRP Administrative leave.
 B. No, I am not a DOE employee who is currently on DRP Administrative leave.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected