Position Title
SUPERVISORY LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12768232-AR-25-142-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
AREA OF CONSIDERATION
1. Are you current on-board T5 federal employee within USPFO Supply and Services?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have 1-year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least next lower grade level; experience in managing the function of the work to be performed; experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2. Directs the development of the logistics support plan and guidance for units, organizations and activities in support of federal and state missions to integrate the following command logistic functions; plans, operations, policies, combat service support automation, equipment on hand readiness, command property management, command supply discipline program, supply excellence program, Connelly Food Service Award Program, DoD National Transportation Association Award Program, food service and logistics resource management.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3. Evaluates logistics data and requirements from STARC staff, units, USPFO, NGB and other organizations to direct development and implementation of logistic support plans, policies, operations and other actions to support federal and state missions. Directs the establishment of the logistics operations cell to support the STARC Emergency Operations Center for federal and state missions. Responsible for advising the DOL on logistics support issues to accomplish mission requirements. Evaluates the logistics force modernization program to assure that materiel fielding is accomplished within established milestones. Develops and coordinates tactical logistics support requirements for the state. Serves as the primary advisor to the DOL on logistics automation matters. Coordinates and directs the preparation of the DOL operating budget and monitors the current status of logistics accounts. Develops the logistic funding plan for the DOL and monitors the obligation of funds. Coordinates facility design and maintenance concerns of the DOL with DEH, to include recommendations for supply and maintenance facility design and the repair of facilities. Management oversight of the General Services Administration Lease Vehicle Program (less recruitment and retention program).

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected