Position Title
Marine Interdiction Agent
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
MIA 26-01 12807244 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.


3.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


4.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 Yes
 No


4.
Applicants are highly encouraged to "Opt-in" for text message reminders!
For applicants who receive a tentative selection offer from Customs and Border Protection, the CBP Hiring Center is offering text messaging reminders. This service will provide you with helpful reminders of scheduled appointments as you move through the pre-employment process. All automated messages are programmed to remind applicants of upcoming appointments (i.e., medical appointment, fitness test reminder, etc.) approximately 3-days out from the appointment dates. Text messaging will not replace any form of official communication, but is intended solely as an added service to reinforce communication.

You may choose to "Opt-in" for this customer service option. Based on conditions set by your mobile carrier, standard text messaging rates may apply which will not be reimbursed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Please check with your carrier to address any potential costs to you to ensure receiving text messaging is an option available to you based on the terms of your service contract. Some carriers may also block incoming "fee generating" text messages or messages from outlying sources and some messages may appear truncated based on limitations imposed by your carrier. Current system constraints with some carriers may not support text messaging service. If you choose to opt-in at this time, you may elect to discontinue this service later by contacting the CBP Hiring Center.

Please select your carrier below. If you do not wish to "Opt In" for text messaging reminders, please choose the last option.
AT&T [0002]
Boost Mobile [0003]
Cricket Wireless [0004]
Sprint [0006]
T-Mobile [0007]
Verizon [0008]
Virgin Mobile USA [0009]
Cellular South [0012]
Centennial Wireless [0013]
Qwest [0015]
Simple Mobile [0016]
TracFone [0017]
Other [0010]
I do NOT opt in to receive text messaging reminders


5.
If you opted in for text messaging reminders, please add you cell phone number below in this format: xxx-xxx-xxxx

If you did not opt in for text messaging reminders, please enter N/A below.


6.
Applicants who receive a tentative offer of employment must successfully complete a polygraph examination. Provided below is a list of locations where polygraph examinations are offered. Please select the location where you prefer to complete your polygraph examination. CBP will do its best to schedule you at your preferred location. However, you may be required to travel to attend the polygraph. CBP will not reimburse you for travel to or from the polygraph site. You will be contacted by the Office of Professional Responsibility to schedule the required polygraph examination.
AZ: Tucson [1001]
AZ: Yuma [1002]
CA: Aliso Viejo (LA/SD) [1004]
CA: San Diego [1003]
CA: San Francisco [1006]
FL: Miramar [1010]
FL: Orlando [1011]
GA: Atlanta (Kennesaw) [1040]
IL: Chicago [1013]
IN: Indianapolis [1014]
ME: Portland [1035]
MI: Detroit [1015]
MN: Bloomington (Mpls/St Paul) [1016]
NJ: Newark [1017]
NY: Buffalo [1018]
NY: Valley Stream [1019]
PR: San Juan [1038]
TN: Nashville [1048]
TX: El Paso [1021]
TX: Houston [1022]
TX: Irving (Dallas/Ft Worth) [1023]
TX: McAllen [1025]
TX: San Antonio [1046]
WA: Seattle [1007]
Washington, DC [1008]


7.
Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 Yes
 No


8.
Due to the strenuous nature of the Marine Interdiction Agent duties and the associated training programs, fitness tests have been developed and will be used to screen candidates for entry level MIA positions. Candidates will be required to pass the pre-employment fitness test early in the pre-employment process. To increase the chances of passing the fitness test, engage in regular physical exercise. For more information go to: https://www.cbp.gov/careers/mia-app-proc

I understand that if selected I will be required to meet the fitness requirements and if travel is necessary to complete the fitness screening, I may incur additional expenses.
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable, I am a current Marine Interdiction Agent


9.
New recruits to the position of Marine Interdiction Agent (MIA) receive extensive training before beginning official duties. The statements of understanding below represent some, but not all, of the conditions of employment of the MIA occupation. If you answer no to one or more of the following Conditions of Employment questions, you will be disqualified from further consideration for the MIA position.

I verify and understand that I:

Must have and maintain a valid US driver's license
Will be required to arrest or assist in the arrest of individuals in violation of law(s) and may also be required to testify under oath to the circumstances of the arrest
Will be required enforce all Federal laws without exception regardless of your personal feelings about these laws and regulations
Will be required to qualify with and maintain proficiency in the use of firearms
Must be prepared to defend self and others from physical attacks and may be involved in physical or altercations even the use of lethal weapons while attempting to arrest suspects
Will be required to serve a probationary period
Will be required to successfully complete 15 weeks of Air and Marine Basic Training (AMBT) at the Air and Marine Operations Academy in Glynco, GA. The training is comprised of formalized courses of basic technical instruction necessary to perform the duties of the position, including a swim/water survival course. Additionally, selectee(s) must successfully complete the following training programs: Spanish Language training course; Initial Survival Training course; Aircraft-specific Flight Training course; and Standardized Tactical Aviation Training (STAT) course.
Subject to mobility at the agency's discretion within and outside the continental U.S. at any time during my tenure with CBP AMO
Am required to wear a prescribed uniform and to comply with established grooming standards
Must be willing and available for work at any time their presence and skills are required. Regular work schedules are: on weekends, evenings and nights, holidays and unscheduled overtime as CBP determines necessary
Must be willing to work with others on a professional basis, with mutual respect, regardless of racial, cultural, religious, political or other differences
May be required to engage in strenuous physical exertion, such as heavy lifting, crouching or crawling in restricted areas, climbing, and running
May be assigned and willing to accept placement to small, remote locations or large metropolitan areas in which there are people whose cultures are significantly different from my own
May be exposed to all kinds of weather and environmental conditions, such as flights of long duration and under unusually stressful conditions, as well as in-flight hazards such as weather, hazardous terrain, physiological and equipment capabilities
Required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug-screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment
I have read the above Conditions of Employment and understand that these conditions are a requirement for appointment to an Marine Interdiction Agent position.

I hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information provided by me is true, correct, and complete and made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this inquiry may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. False or fraudulent information provided herein is also criminally punishable pursuant to federal law, including 10 U.S.C.1001.
 Yes
 No


10.
Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. NOTE: The Commissioner of CBP has approved a temporary increase in the maximum allowable age to 40 for original placement into a law enforcement position. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.

Will you be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes
 No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement
 Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312
 No, I will not be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.


11.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the United States Military in good standing (to include the National Guard, Reserves, or Coast Guard) or have you been discharged under honorable conditions?
 Yes
 No


12.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
Assessment 1
Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙