Position Title
Lead Lifeguard
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
WF25-12759063 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Condition of Employment
1. Are you currently employed at the NAS Whiting Field Fitness Center?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and professional certifications to qualify for the Recreation Assistant, Lead Lifeguard, NF-0189-02 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Best describe your work experience as a Certified Lifeguard.  (Must be verified in resume)
 A. I possess no experience performing the duties of a certified lifeguard.
 B. I possess less than six (6) months experience performing the duties of a certified lifeguard.
 C. I possess between six (6) months and one (1) year experience performing the duties of a certified lifeguard.
 D. I possess between one (1) year and two (2) years' experience performing the duties of a certified lifeguard.
 E. I possess more than two (2) years' experience performing the duties of a certified lifeguard.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Are you currently certified in CPR for the Processional Rescuer AND Basic First Aid to include Automated External Defibrillator (AED)?  Certifications must be upload in order to qualify.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently certified as a Lifeguard with a Nationally recognized certification? (Documents must be uploaded in order to qualify)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Which of the following duties have you performed as a Lifeguard in a working or volunteer capacity (check all that apply):
 A. Use and Maintain Pool Equipment
 B. Take Pool pH Readings
 C. Control, Measure and Administer Pool Chemicals
 D. Enforce Safety Regulations
 E. Successfully Recover Swimmers in a state of Panic
 F. Successfully Recover Unconscious Swimmers
 G. Administer CPR and First Aid
 H. Operate Water Pumps
 I. Complete Rountine Pool Maintenance
 J. Check IDs/Confirm Pool Use Eligibility
 K. Disinfect Pool and shower Areas
 L. File and Complete Incident Reports
 M. Report Safety Violations
 N. Supervise Swimmers
 O. Perform Rescue Work
 P. Schedule Events
 Q. Supervise Youth Activities
 R. Demonstrating Activities
 S. Instructing Classes
 T. I have not performed any of the duties listed above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you possess a current Water Safety Instructor (WSI) certification? (Documents must be included in order to receive credit for certification)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Describe your experience with exercising control over a large group of people.
 A. I possess no experience with controlling large groups.
 B. I possess less than six (6) months experience with controlling large groups.
 C. I possess between six (6) months and two (2) years' experience with controlling large groups.
 D. I possess more than two (2) years of experience with controlling large groups.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
7. Describe your experience to tactfully, but forcefully, provide instruction on water safety, facility rules and regulation with maximum enforcement.
 A. I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 C. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 D. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 E. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected