Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12802599-FDSFDD-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Tucson, AZ
 C. Fort Smith, AR
 D. Fresno, CA
 E. Imperial, CA
 F. Los Angeles, CA
 G. Sacramento, CA
 H. San Bernardino, CA
 I. San Francisco, CA
 J. Santa Ana, CA
 K. Denver, CO
 L. Fort Myers, FL
 M. Hialeah, FL
 N. Jacksonville, FL
 O. Kendall, FL
 P. Miami, FL
 Q. Oakland, FL
 R. Orlando, FL
 S. Tampa, FL
 T. West Palm Beach, FL
 U. Atlanta, GA
 V. Atlanta, GA
 W. Boise, ID
 X. Chicago, IL
 Y. Indianapolis, IN
 Z. Des Moines, IA
 AA. Wichita, KS
 AB. Louisville, KY
 AC. Williamsburg, KY
 AD. New Orleans, LA
 AE. Portland, ME
 AF. Camp Springs, MD
 AG. Boston, MA
 AH. Lawrence, MA
 AI. Minneapolis, MN
 AJ. Kansas City, MO
 AK. Saint Louis, MO
 AL. Helena, MT
 AM. Lincoln, NE
 AN. Omaha, NE
 AO. Las Vegas, NV
 AP. Reno, NV
 AQ. Manchester, NH
 AR. Mount Laurel, NJ
 AS. Newark, NJ
 AT. Buffalo, NY
 AU. New York, NY
 AV. Charlotte, NC
 AW. Raleigh, NC
 AX. Cincinnati, OH
 AY. Columbus, OH
 AZ. Oklahoma City, OK
 BA. Portland, OR
 BB. Philadelphia, PA
 BC. Pittsburgh, PA
 BD. Providence, RI
 BE. Charleston, SC
 BF. Greer, SC
 BG. Memphis, TN
 BH. Nashville, TN
 BI. El Paso, TX
 BJ. Harlingen, TX
 BK. Houston, TX
 BL. Irving, TX
 BM. San Antonio, TX
 BN. Salt Lake City, UT
 BO. Williston, VT
 BP. Norfolk, VA
 BQ. Seattle, WA
 BR. Spokane, WA
 BS. Yakima, WA
 BT. Milwaukee, WI
 BU. Casper, WY
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
13
14
3. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
5. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
6. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
7. Select the actions you have performed independently using database software (e.g., Microsoft Access).
 A. Ran existing queries
 B. Built and linked tables within a database
 C. Designed data entry forms
 D. Reconcile inconsistencies across databases
 E. Entered data using existing forms
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Do you have experience extracting raw data from large data sets and performing the appropriate data analytics to address a business requirement or request?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing data in spreadsheets and databases?
 A. I searched for information in existing databases and spreadsheets using sorts, filters, and/or queries.
 B. I manipulated data in spreadsheets/databases by creating formulas and graphs.
 C. I created spreadsheets/databases to organize data and performed data entry.
 D. I am certified in Microsoft Office (or comparable) programs for spreadsheets and/or databases.
 E. None of the above.
10. What statement best describes your highest level of experience using data mining tools to identify data trends and/or anomalies?
 A. I made modifications to previously developed reports.
 B. I created data mining tools from raw data elements.
 C. I automated routine reports to be readily available to senior managers and executives.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to data mining tools, but do not have professional experience.
 E. None of the above.
11. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using mathematical and/or statistical routine in a computer language (e.g., C++, Python, R, SAS, Java)?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to using mathematical and statistical routine in a computer language.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to using mathematical and statistical routine using a programming language, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I have leveraged pre-existing code to complete a research objective.
 D. I updated and executed pre-existing code to complete a research objective.
 E. I authored original code to be automated or leveraged by colleagues.
12. Select the activities you have performed related to ensuring the accuracy of data related to immigration fraud.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated database with new or revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review.
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues (i.e., fraud).
 F. None of the above.
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to using Microsoft Excel?
 A. I applied basic sorting filters to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 B. I applied conditional formatting to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 C. I applied advanced formulas (e.g. IF and VLOOKUP) to previously created, reoccurring reports.
 D. I created custom pivot tables and applied them to recurring reports.
 E. I wrote Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) code macros for recurring reports that are used by others.
 F. None of the above.
14. Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above
15. Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
16. Have you independently written reports that presented technical statistical issues/analyses for non-technical audiences?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reporting organizational performance measures?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I compiled organizational performance data for analysis and subsequent reporting.
 D. I audited organizational performance-related reports to determine deficiencies/compliance with standards.
 E. I analyzed organizational performance-related reports to make recommendations to enhance operational effectiveness.
18. Select all of the activities you've performed that involved collaborating with other agency programs as well as government and non-governmental partners.
 A. I have worked with colleagues within my agency to solve problems and improve processes.
 B. I have worked with staff in other agencies or similar organization to solve problems or improve processes.
 C. I have partnered with agency staff and non-governmental agencies to resolve issues or improve understanding of agency processes and programs.
 D. I have led groups of colleagues within USCIS in efforts to improve relationships with non-governmental organizations that have a need to understand USCIS programs and processes.
 E. None of the above.
19. Select all of the activities you've performed that involved collaborating with stakeholders.
 A. I have worked with colleagues within my office to solve problems and improve processes.
 B. I have worked with colleagues within my agency to solve problems and improve processes.
 C. I have worked with staff in other agencies or similar organizations to solve problems or improve processes.
 D. I have partnered with agency staff and external organizations to resolve issues or improve understanding of agency processes and programs.
 E. I have led groups of colleagues within my office in efforts to improve relationships with other agencies or non-governmental organizations that have a need to understand agency programs and processes.
 F. I have led groups of colleagues within the agency in efforts to improve relationships with other agencies or non-governmental organizations that have a need to understand agency programs and processes.
 G. None of the above.
20. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
21. Which statement best describes your highest level of making sound, well-informed recommendations?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (peers, supervisors, trainers).
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to make sound, well-informed decisions.
 D. I trained others on techniques to assist in making well-informed recommendations.
22. I have evaluated information (e.g. data, reports) to identify process improvements adopted across an organization.
 A. True
 B. False
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
23. Do you have experience independently advising management on program changes or developments?
 A. Yes
 B. No
24. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 A. I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 B. I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 C. I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.
 D. I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 E. None of the above.
25. I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 A. True
 B. False
26. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using statistics (e.g., reports, estimates, forecasts) to inform immigration policies and procedures?
 A. I assisted senior analysts by developing reports with descriptive statistics.
 B. I made recommendations on immigration policies and procedures based on descriptive statistic reports I generated.
 C. I provided policy development advice based on forecasted statistics.
 D. I briefed managers on statistical findings and estimates to inform policy development decisions.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to statistical reporting, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education related to statistical reporting.
27. Do you have experience in the application of analytical and/or evaluative methods to assess program issues?
 A. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods to assess efficiency and effectiveness in program operations and I’ve used this information to present findings to the financial management team.
 B. I have evaluated program operations and administrative support functions using analytical and evaluative methods to support organizational structures.
 C. I have applied basic analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to assess program issues and conduct studies.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
28. Which software have you used to conduct statistical analysis?
 A. SAS
 B. Stata
 C. R
 D. SPSS
 E. Excel
 F. None of the above
29. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience analyzing current procedures related to immigration benefits.
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures to determine where inefficiencies exist.
 D. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and made recommendations to management on ways to improve practices.
 E. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and independently implemented changes that improved efficiency.
30. Which of the following describes your ability to provide effective communication to convey recommendations to various levels of leadership?
 A. I have conducted meetings with key stakeholders to gather and document business requirements.
 B. I have conducted interviews and working sessions with key stakeholders to obtain information on business functions, and procedures.
 C. I have made oral presentations of analysis, findings, and recommendations to key stakeholders.
 D. I do not meet any of the options provided.
31. Which activities have you independently performed?
 A. Applied statistical principles in multiple research projects occurring simultaneously.
 B. Analyzed complex and/or controversial problems (e.g., immigration reform) using statistical data analysis methods
 C. Made authoritative policy recommendations based on the application of statistical theories.
 D. Drafted reports with statistical analysis results.
 E. Presented technical statistical results to senior leaders/executives.
 F. None of the above.
32. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
33. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected