Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NE-1611-ACAD-25-12762880-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Thursday, July 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
2. This position requires a  a Maine Very Small Water System License OR an equivalent license from another state OR be able to obtain a Maine Very Small Water System License within one year of entrance on duty date. Please indicate below how you will meet this requirement.
 A. I currently possess a Maine Very Small Water System License. Documentation of the license is included in my resume or application materials.
 B. I do not currently possess a Maine Very Small Water System License, but I currently possess an equivalent license from another state. Documentation of the license is included in my resume or application materials.
 C. I do not possess a Maine Very Small Water System License, or an equivalent license from any other state. I understand I must obtain a Maine Very Small Water System License within one year of entrance on duty.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position. For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Be sure to describe your experience that supports your responses to the statement below, in your resume or application materials. It is important that the application package submitted, including a resume and other supporting documents, clearly shows how you possess the experience and skills you claim in this questionnaire. Each of your responses must be clearly supported by your training, and/or specific work experience that you describe in your application packet (resume and other supporting documents). If not, your score will be lowered, or you will be found not qualified.



1. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator position. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of water/wastewater management with a high degree of independence. I have knowledge and experience that demonstrates abilities, in compliance with state and federal water/wastewater regulations, such as: monitoring the conditions of plants and equipment following standard operating procedures; using industry-accepted skills and practices to identify and select repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility; working with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use; and conducting operation, maintenance, repair, and monitoring of wastewater lift station pumping equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements independently. I troubleshoot and take initiative to solve problems, repairs to equipment, pumps, flow meters, etc.
 B. I am able to perform the full range of duties and tasks of water/wastewater management independently with little supervision. I have knowledge and experience that demonstrates abilities, in compliance with state and federal water/wastewater regulations, such as: monitoring the conditions of plants and equipment following standard operating procedures; using industry-accepted skills and practices to identify and select repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility; working with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use; and conducting operation, maintenance, repair, and monitoring of wastewater lift station pumping equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements independently. I make repairs on equipment, pumps, flow meters, etc. and occasionally consult with supervisor on uncommon issues.
 C. I am able to perform the full range of duties and tasks of water/wastewater management with close supervision. I have knowledge and experience that demonstrates abilities, in compliance with state and federal water/wastewater regulations, such as: monitoring the conditions of plants and equipment following standard operating procedures; using industry-accepted skills and practices to identify and select repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with each system and facility; working with storage and distribution water systems for public and domestic use; and conducting operation, maintenance, repair, and monitoring of wastewater lift station pumping equipment and operating conditions to determine process requirements independently. Under normal supervision, I make repairs to equipment, pumps, flow meters, etc.
 D. I have basic plumbing and electrical experience, but no experience related to wastewater treatment/collection or water production/treatment/distribution.
 E. I have no experience related to wastewater treatment/collection or water production/treatment/distribution as described above.
Condition of Employment: Maine Very Small Water Systems License
2. In addition to the requirements in the question above, selectees must possess a Maine Very Small Water System License OR an equivalent license from another state OR be able to obtain a Maine Very Small Water System License within one year of entrance on duty date. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.
 A. I currently possess a Maine Very Small Water System License. Documentation of the license is included in my resume or application materials.
 B. I do not currently possess a Maine Very Small Water System License, but I currently possess an equivalent license from another state. Documentation of the license is included in my resume or application materials.
 C. I do not possess a Maine Very Small Water System License, or an equivalent license from any other state. I understand I must obtain a Maine Very Small Water System License within one year of entrance on duty.
3. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected