Position Title
Supervisory Veterinary Medical Officer
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
MP-12756044-25-VS Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a USDA employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Collins, CO
 B. Beltsville, MD
 C. Raleigh, NC
2. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee of for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that if I am a current or former federal employee, I must submit an SF-50 showing my career/career-conditional status AND a performance appraisal dated within 18 months or as statement detailing the reason for not submitting the appraisal as part of the application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position in the competitive service, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-7, WG-10, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
7. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. 0701 Series Basic Requirement - Choose the one answer that best describes your education.
 A. I have successfully obtained a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine or equivalent degree at a school accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education.
 B. I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical school which is not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education who meets the requirements listed below under "Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools."
 C. I do not meet either of the requirements as described above.
Proof of Meeting Basic Education Requirement: All applicants must submit the following documents as proof of meeting the basic education requirement: * Copies of college transcripts (translated into English) showing a conferred Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) or equivalent degree and, if applicable, proof of meeting qualifications for graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools and proof of English language proficiency.
Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools: A. Education certification: Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education must furnish proof of meeting one of the following requirements: * Proof of certification of their final transcript by the Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates (ECFVG). * Possession of a permanent, full, and unrestricted license to practice veterinary medicine in a state, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States that includes successful completion of the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) or its predecessors, the National Board Examination (NBE) and the Clinical Competency Test (CCT). * Proof that the education obtained in a foreign veterinary medical program is equivalent to that gained in a veterinary medical program that is accredited by the AVMA Council on Education. An AVMA-accredited veterinary medical school or college must have accepted the final transcript from the foreign veterinary medical school at full value for placement into an advanced degree, postgraduate educational program or training program (e.g., residency or graduate program). B. English language proficiency: Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education must submit certification of successful completion of one of the nationally and internationally recognized examinations that assess English language proficiency, including: Option 1. Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) * Paper-based version minimum score is 560 * Computer-based version minimum score is 220 * Internet-based version minimum score is an overall score of 83 (including 26 or higher in speaking, 26 or higher in listening, and 17 or higher in writing). Applicants who took the computer-based or paper-based test versions must also have completed the Test of Spoken English (TSE) with a minimum score of 55 and the Test of Written English (TWE) with a minimum score of 5.5. OR Option 2. International English Language Testing System (IELTS) with: * Overall band score of 7.0 * Minimum score of 7.0 in speaking * Minimum score of 6.5 in listening * Minimum score of 6.0 in writing OR Option 3. Canadian English Language Assessment (CAEL) with: * Minimum overall band score of 70 * Minimum score of 60 in speaking * Minimum score of 60 in listening * Minimum score of 50 in writing
2. Graduates of foreign veterinary schools who qualify for the waiver in question 2: Please state the country in which you were born.

3. Graduates of Foreign Veterinary Schools who qualifies for the English language proficiency test waiver: I understand that I will be required to submit a diploma or other documentation as proof of graduation from a qualifying high (secondary) school before entering on duty, if selected.
 A. Yes, I understand that I need to provide a diploma or other documentation as a graduate of a qualifying high (secondary) school
 B. No, I do not qualify for the English language proficiency waiver and understand that I need to submit further proof of proficiency as described in "Documents Required"
 C. Not applicable, I am not a graduate of a foreign veterinary school and do not need to provide a diploma or other documentation
4. Graduates of Foreign Veterinary Schools: I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program who qualifies for a waiver of the English language proficiency test requirement because the native language of my country of birth is English and I graduated from a high (secondary) school where the entire curriculum and educational programs were taught in English for the entire 3 or 4 years of attendance.

 A. Yes, I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program who qualifies for a waiver of the English language proficiency test requirement, and I understand I need to submit the above documentation.
 B. No, I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program who does not qualify for a waiver of the English language proficiency test requirement
 C. Not applicable, I am a graduate of an AVMA accredited veterinary medical school and do not need to provide further proof of English language proficiency
 D. Not applicable, I am not applying under the 0701 job series. {ONLY INCLUDE OPTION D. IF ANNOUNCING INTERDISCIPLINARY}
5. If you are a graduate of a foreign veterinary school who qualifies for the English language proficiency test waiver, please state the country in which you were born. Otherwise, please put "Not Applicable"

6. GS-14 - In addition to the basic requirement, choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
7. Implementing processes for assessing project or program performance.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. Developing and implementing systems to ensure measurement of program outcomes and report on results.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9. As a supervisor or manager, which of the following actions have you taken to manage, mitigate or prevent conflicts from impacting on the mission or programs you were responsible for managing?
 A. Provided support and resources, e.g., programs and training, for employees or their supervisors to help them manage and resolve conflict in a positive and constructive manner
 B. Provided support and resources to supervisors in resolving grievances and EEO complaints which reached management level
 C. Actively sought out involvement and input from key internal and/or external stakeholders on potentially difficult and contentious issues (e.g., major changes in procedure, program, policy or product) before deciding on a course of action
 D. None of the above
10. Which of the following development activities have you personally conducted for the benefit of persons engaged in professional learning activities or serving as members of your organization?
 A. Developed and delivered presentations, lectures,
 B. Wrote professional papers and presented them at scientific or professional conferences
 C. Developed formal academic coursework and conducted classes accredited by colleges / universities
 D. Served as a guest lecturer in classes held by colleges, universities, or formal in-service training programs
 E. Conducted on the job training for members of my work group or larger organization
 F. Assisted individuals prepare and implement individual development plans (IDPs)
 G. None of the above
11. I have carried out the following tasks on behalf of a group of subordinate employees:
 A. Developed employee performance standards
 B. Provided input on or conducted performance appraisals
 C. Enforced workplace standards
 D. Resolved complaints and/or grievances informally
 E. Formally recognized employees for exceptional work
 F. Identified training needs and scheduled the appropriate training to address them
 G. Recommended disciplinary actions
 H. Participated in hiring/promotion decisions
 I. Assured fair administration of Equal Employment Opportunity statutes and principles
 J. None of the above
12. In which of the following do you have experience as a work leader, project manager, or supervisor responsible for the delivery of services to customers within or outside your organization?
 A. Provides employees with examples, guidelines, and training on customer service techniques
 B. Recognizes and rewards employees who provide good customer service
 C. Effectively addresses episodes of poor customer service
 D. Establishes mechanisms for ongoing customer feedback
 E. Designs processes and procedures to ensure customer satisfaction with services delivered
 F. None of the above
13. Please identify which of the following changing conditions you have dealt with while maintaining unit productivity and quality:
 A. Deadlines
 B. Requirements/specifications
 C. Budget/staff resources
 D. Technology
 E. Organizational structure
 F. Management philosophy
 G. Leadership
 H. Legal or policy requirements
 I. Work place environment or conditions e.g. telecommuting, flexible work schedules
 J. None of the above
14. Which of the following activities have you engaged in as a leader, project manager, or supervisor?
 A. Encourages employees to discuss potential ethical problems
 B. Prohibits retaliatory actions against employees who raise ethical issues speaking out a gainst abuses
 C. Takes action to stop and correct unethical behavior and practices
 D. Assures that employees receive training on ethical issues
 E. None of the above
15. I have successfully used my persuasion and negotiating skills to obtain the decision I wanted or support I needed from:
 A. Colleagues at work in other offices
 B. My supervisor
 C. Managers in my chain of command
 D. Managers in other government organizations
 E. Contractors or contractor employees
 F. Other third party groups (e.g., other agencies with related missions, unions, overseers, special interests, external customers)
 G. Political appointees below the department level
 H. Political appointees at or above agency head level
 I. People I work with in non-work related situations (community leaders, citizens, volunteers)
 J. None of the above
16. I have experience representing (presenting, explaining, defending, selling, and/or negotiating) the organization and its work to:
 A. Professional groups
 B. Stakeholder groups (e.g., other agencies with related missions, overseers, special interests, external customers)
 C. Senior-level management
 D. Middle management
 E. First line supervisors
 F. Program experts
 G. General public
 H. Unions
 I. None of the above
17. I have direct experience and am proficient at writing with clarity, succinctness, persuasiveness, and facility for the intended audience when developing:
 A. Policies
 B. Issue Papers
 C. Program plans
 D. Correspondence dealing with difficult issues
 E. None of the above
18. From the following list of service improvement processes please identify those in which you have been an active participant:
 A. Collects information and feedback from customers and uses that information to imrpove products or services delivered to the public
 B. Engages employees and customers/stakeholders in efforts to develop and maintain standards; improve services, products, and processes
 C. Works across organization lines involving employees from other units, work groups, or jurisdictions, and customers to initiate projects to improve programs services and organizational performance
 D. None of the above
19. From the following choices, select the answers which best describe your experience demonstrating judgment and making sound and effective decisions.

 A. Use depth of knowledge of the issues and organization with relevant experience to effectively address large-scale, complex problems
 B. Sort through complex data and focus on the important information, discount non-critical information
 C. Think and act quickly, decisively, and effectively in a crisis where there are no clear cut answers in situations needing immediate resolution
 D. Make well-considered, balanced, and pragmatic decisions
 E. Integrate data across a number of areas including trends, political considerations, resources, timing, and degree of importance to the organization to make the tough decision when necessary
 F. Analyze information and data to accurately identify patterns and trends that impact the work and organization
 G. Recognize the key issues facing the unit and organization
 H. Involve, and draw on, relevant others in the decision process
 I. Connect diverse sources of information to gain an understanding of an issue
 J. Deal with problems considering the larger organizational context
 K. None of the above
20. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected