Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12804119-MPE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Ashburn, VA
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes implementing, coordinating, and overseeing CBP acquisition programs, including conducting studies, developing policies, and providing technical assistance to align with program goals; monitoring management information systems to track program data, assess performance, and optimize resource allocation; preparing briefings, presentations, and whitepapers for senior staff, ensuring accurate data submission and effective communication of program goals; applying data analysis and risk assessment techniques to evaluate results and provide reports supporting acquisition decisions; managing all phases of test activities, ensuring systems meet requirements, evaluating effectiveness, and advising on process improvements.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
9. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the choice that best describes your ability to orally present information to all levels of employees and management.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s programs or services to others.
 D. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 E. I have given formal presentations of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive to internal and external department level audiences. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
2. Select the choice that best describes your ability to express facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed one or more technical reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
3. Select the choice that best describes your ability to lead projects that cut across organizational/activity lines (for example, cross-functional work teams).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member on a project cutting across organizational/activity lines, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader on a project cutting across organizational/activity lines, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several project teams cutting across organizational/activity lines, consisting of members with widely different areas of expertise toward a common goal, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines. I have evaluated individual team member performance and provided feedback.
4. Select the choice that best describes your ability to interpret and apply organizational directives and guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interpreted and applied organizational directives and other guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have interpreted and applied organizational directives and other guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities to my own work.
 D. I have interpreted and applied organizational directives and other guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities for my work unit.
 E. I have served as a team lead or manager ensuring organizational directives and guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities were properly interpreted and applied.
5. Select the choice that best describes your ability to use standard computer software packages (for example, word processing, spreadsheets, databases) typically found in an office environment.

 A. I have had no experience in using office software applications.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of word processing applications.
 C. I have a working knowledge of word processing applications and some limited experience using spreadsheets.
 D. I regularly use word processing and spreadsheet software in my work, but I do not regularly use database software.
 E. I regularly use word processing, spreadsheet, and database software in my work.
6. Select the choice which best describes your ability to negotiate with internal and external groups.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with individuals to resolve work-related problems or held discussions aimed at persuading others to agree with my viewpoint.
 C. I have conferred and negotiated with internal groups to facilitate program implementation or find mutually acceptable approaches to work-related problems.
 D. I have led and successfully conducted negotiations about sensitive, work-related subjects with both internal and external groups, including union representatives.
7. Select the choice that best describes your ability to make recommendations to peers, coworkers, and supervisors pertaining to the collection, evaluation, or analysis of information.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience in which a peer, coworker, or supervisor has asked me to recommend a way to solve a problem or situation pertaining to the collection, evaluation, or analysis of information.
 C. I have experience in which a peer, coworker, or supervisor has asked me to recommend a way to solve a problem or situation pertaining to the collection, evaluation, or analysis of information
 D. I have extensive experience in which a peer, coworker, or supervisor has asked me to recommend a way to solve a problem or situation pertaining to the collection, evaluation, and analysis of information.
8. Select the choice that best describes your ability to identify challenges or deficiencies in plans and recommend solutions to management.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience identifying challenges or deficiencies in plans and recommending solutions to my superiors.
 C. I have had experience identifying challenges or deficiencies in plans and recommending solutions to my superiors, and I have been responsible for overseeing and monitoring these solutions.
9. Select the option that best describes your experience in developing and maintaining effective relationships (liaison) with points of contact and coordinators to accomplish assigned duties.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, to accomplish assigned duties.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, and accomplish assigned duties.
 D. I have continually developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, establish long-term working relationships, and accomplish assigned duties.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience supporting and implementing changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked with my peers to implement changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure
 C. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure to peers and/or subordinates and explained the impact of these changes.
 D. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure, explained the impact of these changes to internal and external stakeholders, and ensured that the changes were implemented.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience in planning and carrying out assignments and in coordinating your activities with other staff members.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for planning and carrying out well-defined assignments and for coordinating my activities with administrative staff or with staff members at my organizational level.
 C. I have been responsible for planning and carrying out a variety of assignments and for coordinating my activities with administrative staff, with staff members at my organizational level, and with my immediate supervisor.
 D. I have been responsible for planning and carrying out major assignments and for coordinating my activities with a broad range of staff members including higher-level management staff within my office.
 E. I have been responsible for planning and carrying out major organizational programs and for coordinating my activities with a broad range of staff members, including higher-level management staff within and outside of my office.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing budget requests and approving requests for resources based on analysis of needs and other relevant factors.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have approved short-term requests for resources based on a review of justified requests submitted by a third party.
 C. I have conducted independent reviews and analyses of resource requests, prioritizing approvals based on current resource levels and existing policies.
 D. I have participated in multi-year resource needs analyses indexed to future year funding and projections for available resources and I have approved requests for resources submitted to me by subordinates.
 E. I have been responsible for compiling and approving a multi-year resource request based on analysis of organizational goals, priorities, and funding projections, and I have approved requests for resources submitted by subordinates.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing, monitoring, or managing performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of operations or assist in program administration.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made recommendations based on my evaluation of performance measurements used to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 C. I have developed performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and have monitored the use of these measurements.
 D. I have managed the development of performance measurements used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, as well as the evaluation of operations and program administration.
14. Select the choice that best describes your ability to establish and adjust priorities for team and group projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources or goals or unanticipated changes in the work place.
 C. I have established priorities for projects involving multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
15. Select the choice that best describes your ability to represent your organization with all levels of managers, staff members, and external groups or organizations in an effort to promote programs, projects and initiatives.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have provided briefings within my own organization or to external groups or organizations in an effort to promote programs, projects and initiatives.
 D. I have represented a program or organization in high-level conferences or meetings, or I have acted as a liaison to external groups or organizations.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected