Position Title
Dental Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
IM-12756506-25-KME Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Monday, July 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements for appointment as a Dental Assistant the Veterans Health Administration.
1. Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), 7407(d)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Basic Requirement for GS-0681 Series: Qualified applicants must have one of the following Basic Requirements. Select the one that best describes your Basic Requirement. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript (unofficial or official) with your application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.

 A. Do you possess at least 6 months experience that demonstrates the ability to perform the work, or provide familiarity with the work of the position. To be creditable experience must have required the use of core competencies associated with current professional dental assisting practice. Evidence of such experience includes graduation from a certified dental assisting training program, experience in private practice, Veterans Health Administration, Department of Defense, or other federal, state, community or charitable health care agency?
 B. Have you successfully completed a 1-Year dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Accreditation (CODA). (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 C. Have you successfully completed an equivalent combination of experience and education as described above? (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 D. I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.
Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. You must meet one of the following:
3. Basic Requirement for GS-0681 Series: Qualified applicants must have one of the following Basic Requirements. Select the one that best describes your Basic Requirement.

 A. Have successfully completed the Dental Radiation Health and Safety Examination administered by the Dental Assisting National Board, Inc. OR,
 B. Have successfully completed the Principles and Practice of Dental Radiology and Radiographic Safety courses and examinations developed by the Assistant Under Secretary for Health for Dentistry. OR,
 C. Have successfully completed the radiation health and safety program or examination approved by a state board of dentistry or Department of Defense.
 D. I do not have any of the credentialing standards as described in any of the above statements.
In addition to meeting the at least one of the basic requirements above, you must also meet the specialized experience requirement.
4. 4. GS-4 Level: Experience or Education. In addition to the basic requirements, I possess 1 year of experience at the next lower level (GS-3), OR I possess 2 years of education above high school that included completion of a dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on [Dental] Accreditation [(CODA)]. In addition, I can demonstrate the following KSAs: Basic knowledge of infection control and safe instrument handling, Basic knowledge of dental procedures and medical emergencies, Ability to perform basic radiographic image capture and processing/retrieval, Basic knowledge of maintenance, care and storage of dental equipment, Basic knowledge of patient privacy requirements.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS-5 level: Experience and Education. In addition to the requirements listed at GS-4 above, applicants must demonstrate at least 1 year of experience equivalent to at the next lower grade level (GS-4) that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level. OR (2) Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study that included or was supplemented by completion of a dental assistant program by CODA. In addition to meeting (1) or (2) above, the applicant must demonstrate the following KSAs Knowledge of anatomy and ability to evaluate diagnostic quality, broad knowledge of common medical emergencies and vital signs measurement, basic knowledge of instruments, materials and standardized dental procedures, and ability to learn and utilize software programs used within VHA and basic communication skills to provide patient instructions according to established protocol.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-6 : Must have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-5 that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level. Assignments at this level include but are not limited to: responds to basic medical emergencies; measures and records vital signs; provides pre- and post-operative instructions; maintains a field of operation during dental procedures through the use of retraction, suction, irrigation, drying, placing and removing cotton rolls; using the concepts of four-handed dentistry, assists with basic restorative procedures; mixes basic dental materials; assists in preparation of laboratory prescription forms; applies pressure indicator paste to removable prostheses; exposes and processes basic dental radiographs; mounts and labels dental radiographs and/or saves digital imaging to electronic medical records; evaluates radiographs for diagnostic quality; maintains routine dental equipment per manufacturer and dental service standards, ability to identify normal oral anatomy, advanced knowledge of instruments, materials, and standardized dental procedures used in all phases of restorative, surgical, endodontic and periodontal care and procedures, ability to monitor and perform basic interpretation of vital signs, ability to independently provide procedure specific patient education and appropriate referral of patient concerns to treating dentist, ability to capture standard and special dental images of good diagnostic quality in traditional or digital formats, ability to perform maintenance on dental equipment used for routine and specialty dentistry, and ability to enter and retrieve data utilizing electronic dental records.8) Ability to perform dental assistant appropriate laboratory procedures. Certification in basic life support methods is highly desirable.

 A. Yes
 B. No
The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. I certify all my answers and information contained in my submitted application materials are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected