Position Title
Accounting Technician
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12810703 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Thursday, October 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Accounting Technician position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least 1 year specialized experience with accounting techniques and procedures sufficient to understand account relationships within an extensive account structure of an automated system?
 Yes
 No


2.
Based upon how you answered question 1, please provide detailed information regarding where in your application materials this information can be found the supports your response to this question. You must provide job title(s) and date(s) of employment. If your experience was gained from a federal position, you must also include the pay plan, series and grade (e.g. NF-0201-04 / GS-0343-11, etc.) and date(s) of employment). If no information can be provided, please indicate 'n/a' in the box provided.


3.
How many years' of experience do you have with automated accounting systems?
 I have 5+ years' experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years' experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years' experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have experience with recording fixed assets and inventories?
 Yes
 No


5.
How many years' experience do you have in general accounting (e.g. providing general accounting support, completing basic accounting journal entries, and/or assisting in month end closing of financial statements)?
 I have 3+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


6.
How many years' experience do you have using Microsoft Office Programs (e.g., Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook) for accounting purposes?
 I have 3+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙