Position Title
Dental Assistant (Expanded Function)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-12827614-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 4, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


SHORT ESSAY
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. You must (1) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as a radiographer in your field. Select the one statement that best describes how you meet this certification requirement.

 I meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. I have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education; AND am certified as a radiographer in my field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 I was employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel PRIOR TO the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986). (Note: You must attach evidence with your application of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others.)
 I was first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel AFTER the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986), and (1) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation; OR (2) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program. (Note: You must attach evidence with your application to prove training, experience, and competence. Examples of acceptable proof: transcripts, letter of recommendation, etc.)
 I have successfully completed an educational program that included curriculum in dental radiography, but it does not meet OR I am unsure if it meets the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. If it is determined that my educational program does not meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75, I am willing to complete an alternative certification program, such as the Radiation Health and Safety (RHS) examination administered by the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB) or Introduction to Basic Concepts in Dental Radiology administered by the American Dental Assistant Association, at my own expense prior to employment.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements OR I am not willing to complete an alternative certification program at my own expense prior to employment.


2.
Applicants for Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) positions must have completed 1 year of acceptable course work, preceptorship, or other formal training and/or work assignments specifically designed to equip them with knowledge and skills required to perform intra-oral procedures involved in the position to be filled. From the options below, select the one which describes your educational background.

 I have completed at least 1 year of courses in a dental hygiene or dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Accreditation that are directly related to the intra-oral procedures (also referred to as expanded functions) that are to be performed in the position to be filled.
 I have completed the Department of Defense Dental Therapy Assistant Training Program.
 I have completed at least 1 year of continuing education courses in expanded functions for dental assistants offered by the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services.
 I have completed at least 1 year of other training comparable to the above in private or governmental hospitals, clinics, or schools that included formal classroom instruction and clinical training in the knowledge and skills required to perform intra-oral procedures in the position to be filled.
 My education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience which includes providing chair side assistance supporting a dental specialist by performing intra-oral procedures; charting or taking preliminary impressions; operating dental x-ray equipment. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service, (GS-05).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙