Position Title
Health and Wellness Coach
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12822204-26-MR Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Friday, November 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position. Please answer the following questions to determine that you meet the qualification for this position.


1.
Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency Requirement. Health and Wellness Coach candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f)

Are you proficient in the spoken and written English Language?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education and/or Experience:
Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in behavioral or social science or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
OR
Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

OR

Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.


Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes
 No


4.
Certification Requirement: Candidates must be currently certified by the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC). or be willing to obtain certification within one year.


Do you possess the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC)?



NOTE: A copy of Certification is required with application package.
 Yes, I have a certification.
 No, I don't have certification, but I will be able to obtain within one year.
 No, I don't certification


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Grade Determination: Health and Wellness GS-07

Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of health and wellness coaching processes and techniques.
(b) Ability to promote positive lifestyle choices.
(c) Ability to effectively communicate in writing through a variety of modalities.
(d) Ability to effectively communicate verbally/non-verbally.

Do you meet these requirements?



 Yes
 No


6.
Health and Wellness Coach, GS-09: Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of current research literature related to health and wellness, including behaviors that promote a healthy lifestyle and well-being.
(b) Skill in using health and wellness coaching techniques to promote positive behavior change using one-on-one, couple or group modalities.
(c) Skill in exercising effective interpersonal communication techniques to develop and maintain strong interpersonal relationships.
(d) Ability to assist the client in developing a comprehensive personalized health plan based on a patient's action-oriented goals.
(e) Ability to identify internal and external resources to the organization that are necessary for achieving patient overall health and well-being goals. (f) Ability to use information technology (IT) equipment and various/emerging technologies to carry out work responsibilities. (g) Ability to document patient information using appropriate systems.

Do you meet these requirements?

Note: Please ensure how you meet these technical competencies is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


 Yes
 No


7.
Certification of Understanding - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do NOT wish to be considered for this position.


INSTRUCTIONS: REMINDER - you must provide a complete application package which includes: Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Grade Level (for Federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Copy of transcripts documenting the required degree - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙