Position Title
Physician (FP, IM, PEDS, IM-PEDS)
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-25-GP-12733973-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 25, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Belcourt, ND
 B. Fort Yates, ND
 C. Aberdeen, SD
 D. Eagle Butte, SD
 E. Fort Thompson, SD
 F. Kyle, SD
 G. Lower Brule, SD
 H. Martin, SD
 I. Rosebud, SD
 J. Sisseton, SD
 K. Wagner, SD
 L. Wanblee, SD
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
13
14
15
3. What work schedule would you like to be considered for? You will only be considered for the options you select below.
 A. Full-Time. A work schedule that usually requires an employee to work 40 hours as prescribed by the administrative work week.
 B. Part-Time. A work schedule that requires an employee to work less than full-time, but for a specific number of hours (usually 16-32 per administrative work week) on a prearranged scheduled tour of duty.
 C. Intermittent. A work schedule that requires an employee to work an irregular number of hours or days for which there is no prearranged scheduled tour of duty.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Physician (multiple specialties) position with the Indian Health Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. BASIC REQUIREMENT - DEGREE 
In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the degree requirements for a physician position. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background and which demonstrates how you meet the education requirements.
 A. I have a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathy from a school in the United States or Canada approved by a recognized accrediting body in the year of the applicant's graduation at the time the degree was obtained.
 B. I have a Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school that provided education and medical knowledge substantially equivalent to accredited schools in the United States as demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG).
 C. I have a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country.
 D. I have successful completed the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination.
 E. I do not have the degree requirements as described above.
2. BASIC REQUIREMENT - GRADUATE TRAINING
Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathy Medicine degree, all candidates must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting. Select the response that most accurately describes your graduate training background.
 A. I have completed a 1-year internship program which involved a broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 B. I have completed the first year of a residency program which involved training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 C. I have completed a fellowship program which involved advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training.
 D. I do not have the graduate training as described above.
3. BASIC REQUIREMENT - LICENSURE
This physician position provides direct patient care; as such, all eligible candidates must meet the licensure requirement.
 A. I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.
 B. I am pending licensure and understand that I am not able to officially enter on duty until I am fully licensed.
 C. I do not meet the licensure requirements as described above.
4. IHS Agency Wide Selective Factor - GS-0602-13/14/15 - Board Certification/Residency/Diploma/Certificate:
In addition to meeting basic and minimum requirements, the following selective factor of requiring Board Certification is determined to be essential to perform the duties and responsibilities of the position.  Applicants must meet one of the following requirements for all grade levels. Please select only one of the responses below:
 A. I am Board Certified (ABMS or NBPAS) in the Specialty to which I am applying. (Must provide a copy of your board certification).
 B. I have a Residency Diploma/Certificate from an accredited residency program indicating successful completion within the past three years. (Must provide a copy of your residency diploma/certificate).
 C. It has been three or more years since I have completed an accredited residency program and I understand that I must provide a copy of your residency diploma/certificate and documentation to verify active pursuit of Board Certification in the specialty in which I am applying.
 D. I do not meet the Selective Factor.
5. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS, GS-0602-13
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-13.  Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 A. I have completed 3 years of residency training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training.
 B. I am applying within 6 months of meeting the residency requirements. I understand that evidence of meeting the requirements must be provided and verified prior to entrance on duty.
 C. I do not meet the residency, experience, or training as described above.
6. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS, GS-0602-14
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-14.  Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 A. I have completed 4 years of residency training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training.
 B. I do not meet the residency, experience, or training as described above.
7. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS, GS-0602-15
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-15. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 A. I have completed 5 years of residency training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training.
 B. I do not meet the residency, experience, or training as described above.
SECTION II. CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verficiation. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
8. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected