Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER (DEPUTY USPFO)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12747590-AR-25-214 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Saturday, August 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. Are you a current member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard?
 A. I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Army or Air National Guard. (Area I NB)
 B. I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army or Air National Guard. (Area II NB)
 C. I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army or Air National Guard. (Area III NB)
 D. I am not currently a member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV NB)
 E. I am not currently a member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education, or training in managing or directing, one or more programs, including appropriate supporting service organizations. Supervisory, managerial, professional, or technical work experience and/or training which has provided knowledge of management principles, practices, methods and techniques. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1 year of experience equivalent to at least next lower grade level. Applicants specialized experience must include analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data, and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various resources. Must have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures. Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(O5/LTC - O6/COL)
 A. Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 B. No, but I am an employee with the MT Army/Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army/Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 C. No, I am over graded in military rank.
 D. No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 E. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army/Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army/Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 F. No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army/Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
5. What is your current military rank?
6. Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected