Position Title
Powerplant Supervisor II
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-MB-25-DE-12778033-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Friday, August 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other
3. Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.). (limit 100 characters)
You are applying under the Delegated Examining announcement. If you want to be considered under the concurrent Merit Promotion announcement, you must submit a separate application under that announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.
Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.
1. If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. You must maintain a valid State Driver's License at all times as the position requires operation of government vehicles on government and public roads. Do you currently have, or can you acquire prior to entrance on duty, a valid Driver's License and the ability to operate a government vehicle?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Powerplant Supervisor II position with Bureau of Reclamation. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the response that describes your journeyman or engineering experience in a powerplant (greater than 1 MW).

 A. I have experience –BOTH- as a journeyman Powerplant Electrician, Powerplant Communications and Instrumentation mechanic, or Powerplant Mechanic crafts –AND- have work experience in powerplant operations.
 B. I have experience –BOTH- as a journeyman Powerplant Operator –AND- work experience in powerplant maintenance.
 C. I have experience –BOTH- as a journeyman powerplant Electrical or Mechanical Engineer -AND- work experience in powerplant operations.
 D. I have journeyman experience as a Powerplant Electrician, Powerplant Operator, Powerplant Communications & Instrumentation Mechanic, or Powerplant Mechanic crafts.
 E. I have journeyman experience as a Powerplant Electrical or Mechanical Engineer.
 F. I have journeyman experience in industrial maintenance.
 G. I have journeyman experience as an Electrical or Mechanical Engineer.
 H. None of the above.
2. Select the response that best describes your experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of facilities and/or associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 A. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of hydroelectric powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 B. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 C. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities of civil works structures on a regular basis.
 D. I have experience LEADING operation and maintenance activities of hydroelectric powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 E. I have experience LEADING operation and maintenance activities of powerplants and associated civil works structures on a regular basis.
 F. I have experience SUPERVISING operation and maintenance activities in other technical/industrial/production areas such as manufacturing.
 G. I have experience LEADING operation and maintenance activities of civil works structures on a regular basis.
 H. I have experience PERFORMING operation and maintenance activities of hydroelectric powerplants and associated civil works structures but have had no actual supervisory or leader experience.
 I. I have experience PERFORMING operation and maintenance activities of powerplants and civil works structures but have had no actual supervisory or leader experience.
 J. I have experience PERFORMING operation and maintenance activities of civil works structures but have had no actual supervisory or leader experience.
 K. None of the above.
3. Select the response(s) that describe the lead or supervisory duties you have performed on a regular basis. (Regular means on a recurring basis.)

 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set, and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates.
 D. Given advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters.
 E. Interviewed candidates for positions in the unit, and recommended/selected for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 F. Heard and resolved complaints from employees.
 G. Effected disciplinary measures on employees for conduct or performance issues.
 H. Identified developmental and training needs of employees based on organizational goals and budget constraints.
 I. Rewarded employees for work accomplishments.
 J. Complied with diversity and equal employment opportunity obligations.
 K. Used formal mediation techniques to resolve complaints.
 L. Resolved union issues from employees covered under a labor-management agreement.
 M. Performed onsite inspections for quality, quantity of work, and solve problems that may arise during the assignment.
 N. None of the above.
4. Select the response(s) that describe the type(s) of staff you have led or supervised.

 A. Power or pumping plant Electricians.
 B. Power or pumping plant Mechanics.
 C. Communications and Instrumentation Mechanics.
 D. Building Maintenance.
 E. Power or pumping plant Operators.
 F. Administrative Support.
 G. Construction/Industrial journeyman.
 H. Journeyman Power or Industrial-related Mechanical or Electrical Engineers.
 I. None of the above.
5. Have you supervised employees covered under a labor-management agreement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Select the response that best describes your experience in managing the operation and maintenance of dams, powerplants, transmission/distribution systems, pumping plants, water conveyance, or other applicable industrial facilities.
 A. I have experience and am considered an expert in managing the operation and maintenance work associated with dams, powerplants, pumping plants, transmission/distribution, civil/water works, or applicable industrial facility that utilize electrical, mechanical, and hydraulic equipment to operate turbines, transformers, circuit breakers, pumps, gates, or valves.
 B. I have experience managing the operation or maintenance work associated with a dam, powerplant, pumping plant, transmission/distribution, civil/water works, or applicable industrial facility that utilizes electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate turbines, transformers, circuit breakers, pumps, gates, or valves.
 C. I have experience supervising the operation or maintenance activities on a regular basis of a dam, powerplant, distribution/transmission, civil/water works, pumping plant, or applicable industrial facility.
 D. I have experience supervising the operation or maintenance work on facilities that transport other fluids through open or closed systems using electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 E. I have experience leading operation or maintenance activities on a regular basis of a dam, powerplant, pumping plant, distribution/transmission, civil/water works, or applicable industrial facility.
 F. None of the above.
7. Select the response that best describes your overall technical experience in all aspects of operation and maintenance of dams, powerplants, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities.

 A. I have experience, and am considered an expert, performing operation and maintenance work associated with dams, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities that utilize electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate pumps, gates, and valves to lift, convey, and transport water at high rates of delivery and large volumes (dams, pumping plants, and canals with capacity of 250 cubic feet per second (CFS) or larger).
 B. I have experience performing operation and maintenance work associated with dams, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities that utilize electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate pumps, gates, and valves to lift, convey, and transport water (dams, pumping plants, and canals with capacity of 250 cubic feet per second (CFS) or larger).
 C. I have experience performing operation and maintenance work of similar facilities that are smaller in scale in terms of rate of delivery and volume (capacity less than 250 CFS) that use electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 D. I have experience performing operation and maintenance work on facilities that transport water or other fluids through open or closed systems using electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 E. I have education and training in operation and maintenance of water conveyance facilities.
 F. None of the above.
8. Select the response(s) that describe your experience in interpreting and applying instructions, specifications, and technical information.

 A. Read and interpret blueprints and drawings.
 B. Read and interpret manufacturer’s specifications.
 C. Use equipment maintenance manuals.
 D. Develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules.
 E. Explain procedures and safe operating methods.
 F. Use equipment operation manuals.
 G. None of the above.
9. I have experience maintaining, troubleshooting, and repairing the following powerplant electrical equipment.

 A. Governors.
 B. Multiple stage air compressors.
 C. Generators - fixed (greater than 5 MW).
 D. Voltage regulators.
 E. Excitation systems, Rotating and or Electronic.
 F. Battery systems (125VDC 400AH or greater).
 G. Circuit breakers (600V - 24KV).
 H. Power circuit breakers (air, vacuum, oil or SF6).
 I. Transformers (greater than 10MVA).
 J. Controls, power, and indicators for auxiliary equipment.
 K. Cranes.
 L. Variable frequency drives (VFDs).
 M. Pumps (up to 500 gpm).
 N. Interrupters (115KV or greater).
 O. High voltage disconnects/ground switches.
 P. None of the above.
10. Select the response(s) that describe your experience in planning work.

 A. Plan the manpower and equipment needed.
 B. Estimate and track costs of time and materials.
 C. Create short- and long-term work schedules.
 D. Manage a job with more than one trade performing the work.
 E. Track job progress and job completion.
 F. Procure materials for the project.
 G. None of the above.
11. Select the response that best describes your experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs.
 A. I have no education or experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs.
 B. I have experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities. My work was closely monitored by a supervisor or a senior employee to ensure quality.
 C. I have experience using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities as a regular part of my job. I have applied my abilities independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I am considered an expert in using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities.
 E. I have supervised other employees engaged in using computerized preventative maintenance management programs to review, analyze and document maintenance activities, or I am considered an expert who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them with using computerized preventative maintenance management programs for complicated review, analysis, and documentation of maintenance activities.
12. Select the response that best describes your experience using scheduling software.

 A. I have used scheduling software to manage large ($500,000 and above) construction or maintenance type projects.
 B. I have had experience using scheduling software to manage smaller (below $500,000) projects of any kind.
 C. I have had training in using scheduling software.
 D. I have no experience or training with scheduling software.
13. Select the response(s) that describe your experience with budget formulation and/or execution.

 A. I have experience formulating budgets for operation and maintenance of powerplants, dams, or pumping plants that include employee salaries, travel, transportation, equipment, materials and supplies, contract costs, and overhead costs.
 B. I have experience in monitoring, tracking, and reporting of monthly costs for operation and maintenance of powerplants, dams, or pumping plants that include employee salaries, travel, transportation, equipment, materials and supplies, contract costs, and overhead costs.
 C. I have experience in preparing written work plans, activity plans, justifications, and detailed budgets for powerplants and/or civil infrastructure.
 D. I have experience in evaluating resources required to accomplish tasks and estimate corresponding costs for staff, contract costs, equipment, permits, indirect costs, overhead, etc.
 E. I have education or training in budget and cost tracking processes.
 F. None of the above.
14. From the following list, select all the safety standards, guidelines, or procedures that you have received education or training AND have used in an industrial environment.

 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA).
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (Lockout/Tagout) (HECP).
 C. Switchman and Authorized Personnel Certification.
 D. Basic Electrical Safety in the Workplace.
 E. Hearing Conservation.
 F. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
 G. Respiratory Protection.
 H. Confined Space.
 I. Hazardous Communications and Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS).
 J. Fire extinguishers.
 K. Infectious control (bloodborne pathogens).
 L. Emergency response planning.
 M. Personal fall protection.
 N. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) & Automated external defibrillator (AED).
 O. First aid.
 P. Hazardous waste/Spill Prevention.
 Q. Asbestos awareness.
 R. Workplace safety and health inspections.
 S. Construction safety.
 T. National Fire Protection Administration Standards (NFPA).
 U. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards.
 V. Defensive driving.
 W. Hazard identification.
 X. Emergency communications systems.
 Y. Electrical safety, including National Electric Code.
 Z. None of the above.
15. Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.
 A. I have accepted/held clearances in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant (greater than 200 CFS capacity) and verified the clearance boundary.
 B. I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 C. I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 D. I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 E. I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.
16. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected