Position Title
Human Resources Assistant
Agency
Air Mobility Command
Announcement Number
25-5FFSCN939150 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a Department of Defense (DoD) Air Force Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employee separated by a business-based action within the last year?  If claiming yes, a copy of the AF Form 2545 or notice of separation due to business based action must be uploaded with your application to receive priority consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a spouse of an active duty military member? A military spouse is defined as the wife or husband of an active duty member of the US Armed Forces, including the US Coast Guard and the full time National Guard or Reserves. For the purposes of this preference, the marriage must have occurred PRIOR to the service member's relocation via a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to the military sponsor's new duty station. If claiming yes, a copy of your Sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders (along with proof of marriage if applicant's name does not appear on sponsor's orders) must be uploaded with your application to receive preference.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a Veteran?  If claiming yes, a copy of the DD 214 (member 4 or service 2 copy) or equivalent must be uploaded with your application to receive priority consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you the spouse, widow/widower or parent of a veteran who was disabled or killed in action? If claiming yes, you will need to provide proof to validate this claim prior to a tentative job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you been involuntarily separated from the Armed Services with an honorable or general under honorable conditions discharge within the last year?  If claiming yes, a copy of your transition assistance identification card must be uploaded with your application to receive preference.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of the Air Force Non-appropriated Funds (NAF).  This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for a Human Resources Assistant, NF-0203-02/03.  Your resume must reflect your responses.  Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Do you have progressively responsible office and clerical work experience that provided you a thorough knowledge of administrative principles and practices?
 A. Yes, I possess the experience.
 B. No, I do not possess the experience.
2. Do you possess knowledge of office automation software (MS Windows, MS office including PowerPoint, Word, Access and Excel) and the ability to type?
 A. Yes, I possess the knowledge and have the ability to type.
 B. No, I do not possess the knowledge or the ability to type.
3. Do you possess the knowledge of rules and regulations, procedures, and program requirements of one or more areas of a personnel system?
 A. Yes, I possess the knowledge.
 B. No, I do not possess the knowledge.
4. Do you have progressive experience and comprehensive knowledge of rules and regulations, procedures, and program requirements of NAF (Non-appropriated Funds) Personnel administration?
 A. Yes, I possess the experience and the knowledge.
 B. No, I do not possess the experience and knowledge.
5. Do you have progressive experience in processing a variety of personnel actions within a Human Resources automated system, such as processing appointments, promotions, reassignments, and insurance actions?
 A. Yes, I possess the experience.
 B. No, I do not possess the experience.
6. Certification statement: By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree or respond to the certification statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I certify all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if my resume and/or supporting document(s) do not support my responses to the questionnaire my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not wish to certify the accuracy of my responses; and I do not wish to be considered further for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected