Position Title
COST ANALYST
Agency
Air Force Civilian Career Training
Announcement Number
C-26-DHA-0501-CA-PJK Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. CTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. ICTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eglin AFB, FL
 B. MacDill AFB, FL
 C. Robins AFB, GA
 D. Scott AFB, IL
 E. Hanscom AFB, MA
 F. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 G. Tinker AFB, OK
 H. Arnold AFB, TN
 I. Hill AFB, UT
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
3. I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 A. Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 B. Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 C. Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 D. Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 E. I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
4. I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 A. I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 B. I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 C. I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 D. Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.
2. This position requires a Secret security clearance. I am able and willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and review of my driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires a Mobility Agreement. Mobility programs enhance career progression or mission effectiveness. Air Force often needs to assign civilian employees to meet critical manning needs of key managerial positions or to provide employees with exposure to a variety of work experiences. You will be required to sign and abide by the provision of the Mobility Agreement as a condition of employment and refusal to sign will result in denial of appointment. I am able and willing to accept a position requiring my mobility and I am able and willing to sign a Mobility Agreement as a stipulation of employment.
 Radio Buttons - Yes/No
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine if you are a retired Federal Civilian Employee, and receiving an annuity.
1. Please answer the following Yes/No question:
 A. No, I am not a retired Federal Civilian Employee, and receiving an annuity.
 B. Yes, I am a retired Federal Civilian Employee, and receiving an annuity.
The following section is used to determine if you are a current or recently retired military member.
2. I am a current or prior active duty military member that is retiring or has been retired from active duty less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring (terminal leave) or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-7 or GS-9, Cost Analyst work.
3. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.
 A. I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor’s, Master’s, Professional, or Doctorate’s Degree from a qualifying educational institution, in any field which included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in financial-related coursework from an accredited college or university. Examples of financial-related coursework are college level mathematics, accounting, operations research, business management, financial analysis, quantitative analysis, economics, public administration, or computer science, AND I have Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) at the undergraduate level. Superior Academic Achievement is defined as: (1) Class standing - upper third of the graduating class based on completed courses in the college, university, or major subdivision; OR (2) Grade Point Average- a. 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on my official transcript or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of my curriculum; OR b. 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in my major field or the required courses in my major field completed during the final 2 years of my curriculum; OR (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society (Note: freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this position). Submit a copy of your transcript and documented proof of GPA, class standing or honor society membership.
 B. I have one full year of graduate level study, or possess a Master's or higher degree in any field which included or was supplemented by 24 hours of financial-related coursework (with a minimum GPA of 3.0 for this coursework), from an accredited college or university. Examples of financial-related course work are college-level mathematics, accounting, operations research, business management, financial analysis, quantitative analysis, economics, public administration, and computer science.
 C. I have at least one year (12 months) of specialized experience that demonstrates knowledge of cost estimating methods and techniques. Ability to collect, organize and analyze financial data. Ability to perform research to identify cost schedules and performance data. Ability to communicate orally and in writing. Ability to work accurately with figures.
 D. I have less than the full amount of graduate education described in "A" and less than the amount of experience described in "C," but I have a combination of the type of education described in "B" and the type of experience described in "C. (SUBMIT COPY OF TRANSCRIPT)
 E. I do not have the education or experience as described in A, B, C or D above.
This section is used to determine category rating based on your education, Grade Point Average (GPA).
4. Please select only the appropriate category based on your education.
 A. Best-qualified category. Bachelor’s/Master’s Degree with overall GPA of 3.5 or higher, in any field which included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in financial-related coursework in mathematics, accounting, operations research, business management, financial analysis, quantitative analysis, economics, public administration, or computer science, and have documented Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) at the undergraduate level; OR one year of graduate level education in the related fields referenced above; OR Associate’s Degree in the related fields above, with one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05/07 grade level.
 B. Highly-qualified category. Bachelor’s/Master’s Degree with overall GPA between 3.25 and 3.499, in any field which included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in financial- related coursework in mathematics, accounting, operations research, business management, financial analysis, quantitative analysis, economics, public administration, or computer science, and have documented Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) at the undergraduate level; OR one year of graduate level education in the related fields referenced above; OR Associate’s Degree in the related fields above, with one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05/07 grade level.
 C. Qualified category. Bachelor’s/Master’s Degree, with overall GPA between 2.95 and 3.249, in any field which included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in financial- related coursework in mathematics, accounting, operations research, business management, financial analysis, quantitative analysis, economics, public administration, or computer science, and have documented Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) at the undergraduate level; OR one year of graduate level education in the related fields referenced above; OR Associate’s Degree in the related fields above, with one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05/07 grade level.
 D. I do not have the education or experience as described in A, B, C above.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probationary period, or other disciplinary action, including termination. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
5. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my response to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected