Position Title
Cartographer
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OI-SMP-12783127-ERO Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 25, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

The following question applies to former permanent federal employees in the competitive service, or federal employees who are currently in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position but who previously held a permanent competitive service position. Details and Temporary Promotions are not considered permanent positions.  

Are you a current or former federal civilian employee with the Federal government that meets one of the following criteria? 

Is currently employed with the Federal government in an excepted service position, or other than permanent competitive service position; who was previously employed with the Federal government with career status in a competitive service appointment; OR 
Is currently employed with the Federal government in an excepted service position, or other than permanent competitive service position, who was previously employed with the Federal government with career-conditional status in a competitive service appointment and has had no more than a total of 3 years of separation from their previous career conditional appointment or are Veterans' Preference eligible.  
Was previously employed with the Federal government with career status in a competitive service appointment, OR 
Was previously employed with the Federal government with a career-conditional status in a competitive service appointment and has had no more than a total of 3 years of separation from their previous career conditional appointment or are Veterans' Preference eligible. 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your former permanent position in the competitive service: 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center and OPM Hiring Information. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
8.

This question applies to current or former Federal employees. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Applicants who do not answer this question correctly are not removed from consideration.  However, if you claim only the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Promotion potential (also referred to as full performance level - FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not considered permanent positions. The examples provided below and are not all inclusive but are provided for informational purposes only.  

Examples:   

You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12. 
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12. 
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 would be considered the highest promotion potential you have held.  
You formerly held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis with promotion potential to the GS-13 and have been separated less than 52 weeks. GS-13 would be considered the highest promotion potential you have held. 
You were a former Federal employee and have been separated for over 52 weeks, you may be considered for a promotion potential above what you previously held without competition if it is determined you meet the specialized or general experience.  
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   
Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced; AND if applicable,

If you are a former Federal employee, and have been separated from Federal service for over 52 weeks, it is recommended that you submit your most recent career or career-conditional position rating of record (performance appraisal) along with your SF-50 that reflects: 

Rate of record (performance appraisal) of at least fully successful (or equivalent) 

Are you one of the following below?
A current or former Federal employee who has held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement, OR
A former Federal employee who has been separated more than 52 weeks who has previously held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) as noted in the announcement? (Applicants who were previously employed with the Federal government and did not previously hold the promotion potential of the position announced may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures if it has been longer than 52-weeks since previous Federal employment, provide your rating of record (performance appraisal) of at least fully successful (or equivalent) and you are considered qualified). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
4. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
5. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
6. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
8. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
9. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
10. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing duties such as; Planning, implementing, maintaining, and expanding, large-scale, enterprise Geospatial Information Systems (GIS) architecture in a cloud environment; Conducting advanced geospatial database administration and geospatial analysis to extract meaningful insights from geographic data; Processing data through appropriate software Using principles of relational database management systems (RDBMS) for data management, creation, and maintenance within a multi-user, versioned geodatabase environment; Supporting overall GIS Program Management by planning, organizing, and leading the development of requirements, budget proposals, and contracting efforts.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
11. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, performing duties such as; Developing of databases, data analysis, and the creation of usable data documents, maps, and reports; Querying and analyzing multiple GIS themes and relational datasets; Reviewing mapping and analytical products to ensure that they adhere to all relevant standards and regulations; Making long-range and controversial proposals to defend findings and recommendations in public or high-level forums; Planning, organizing, and leading teams to prepare requirements and specifications for new, large-scale systems or to evaluate overall plans and proposals for significant systems developed by contractors.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describe your experience and/or education as it pertains to the Mandatory Basic Requirements for Cartographer positions? (You will need to upload a copy of your transcript to verify this claim)

 A. Degree: cartography; or a major that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in cartography and/or directly related science, and related mathematics. Such course work includes, but is not limited to, cartography, geographic information systems, astronomy, geodesy, photogrammetry, physical and geological oceanography, computer science, land surveying, geophysics, physical geography, and remote sensing. The 30 semester hours must have included at least 6, but no more than 15, semester hours of college level, non-business mathematics or statistics (i.e., college level algebra, trigonometry, calculus, or scientific mathematics or statistics requiring equivalent college-level courses as prerequisites).
 B. I possess a combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major in cartography, or a major that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in cartography, and/or directly related science, and related mathematics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not meet the education or experience requirements as described.
The following questions will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience in motivating or guiding others toward accomplishing goals.
 A. I have had no training or experience in motivating others toward accomplishing goals.
 B. I have served as a team leader and motivated and guided team members in the accomplishment of predetermined goals and objectives.
 C. I have served as a team leader or program manager and I have established group goals and facilitated their accomplishment. I have been responsible for monitoring the work of team members or subordinates and providing any needed guidance, training, or direction.
 D. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
3. Select the choice which best describes the extent of your knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place and your ability to apply this knowledge to situations.
 A. I have a basic understanding of internal and external politics in the work place.
 B. I have a thorough understanding of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired through on-the-job experience and formal training, and I have routinely applied this knowledge in work situations.
 C. I have expert knowledge of internal and external politics in the work place, acquired from extensive supervisory/managerial experience, and I have applied this knowledge to enhance the effectiveness of my organization.
 D. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience in supporting and implementing changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.
 A. I have disseminated information to my coworkers about changes in policies, procedures, or organizational structure.
 B. I have worked with my peers to implement changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.
 C. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure to peers or subordinates and explained the impact of these changes.
 D. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure, explained the impact of these changes to internal and external stakeholders, and ensured that the changes were implemented.
 E. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 C. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.
 D. I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience managing several simultaneous, interrelated projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for managing a few, routine projects within my office.
 C. I have had experience managing a number and variety of simultaneous, interrelated projects within my office or with other agencies/offices.
 D. I have had extensive experience managing simultaneous, interrelated, highly complex projects across offices/agencies.
7. Select the choice which best describes your experience in establishing and adjusting priorities for work.
 A. I have carried out work assignments that have been prioritized by others.
 B. I have established priorities for my own work and I have made adjustments to accommodate planned changes or to comply with new procedures.
 C. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources or goals or unanticipated changes in the workplace.
 D. I have established priorities for projects involving multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
 E. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
8. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined the problem, and identified solutions.
 A. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 B. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 C. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 D. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
 E. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
9. Indicate the extent to which you have experience in analyzing and integrating various types of geospatial data and information.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data or information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have compared and correlated technical data and information from multiple sources.
 D. I have evaluated data and information from a wide variety of sources, some of which are in conflict, drawn conclusions as to the meaning of the data, and made specific recommendations to address relevant issues.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and coordinating geospatial projects or programs.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed plans for a project (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have independently planned and coordinated one or more projects that were limited in scope. I have had responsibility for setting timelines, establishing milestones, identifying needed resources, and accomplishing established goals.
 D. I have independently planned and coordinated projects or programs that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed resources were provided and for ensuring that project staff established timelines, met milestones, and accomplished goals.
11. Indicate the extent of your training and experience in analyzing and evaluating geospatial, textual and/or imagery source materials for data integrity, reliability, and validity and preparing/generating source packages for production.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (for example, receiving and reformatting data in disparate formats, performing thorough data QA/QC and translating data into a well-designed geospatial format).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
12. Indicate the extent of your training and experience in analyzing collected source data for applicability, quality, currency, and adequacy of coverage for production.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (for example researching, selecting, and compiling best-available geospatial data in response to immediate-need requests).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
13. Indicate the extent of your training and experience in analyzing collected source data, ensuring requirements meet general guidelines and standards, and conform to established priorities and production requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (reviewing geospatial data requirements, maintaining metadata and ensuring established data handling procedures are followed).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
14. Indicate the extent of your training and experience in managing datasets, performing analysis, interpreting data and using various cartography/geospatial databases and technology systems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (maintaining large geospatial datasets and associated databases and ensuring that they are represented and analyzed appropriately).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
15. Indicate the extent of your training and experience in developing digital databases, computer application software routines and macros, and determining the optimal methodology to present data (including hardcopy maps, graphical displays, models and reports).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have acquired a basic knowledge through relevant training, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job.
 C. I am fully proficient and have regularly applied this knowledge on the job as part of my regular job duties (for example, writing macros or creating maps ).
 D. I have a high degree of expertise and I am frequently consulted by others for my knowledge in this area (for example, training staff, advising on novel or complex determinations) in addition to having extensive experience applying this knowledge on the job.
16. Indicate the extent to which you have researched and analyzed facts, conditions (such as crime demographic and terrain data) or other forms of data to draw conclusions and make recommendations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed documents for accuracy of data and accumulated, analyzed, interpreted, and reported data. I have independently resolved data inconsistencies or relatively complex problems or issues.
 C. I have reviewed and interpreted statistical reports or automated system outputs of a routine nature and made recommendations.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience in using word processing, spreadsheet, and database software (for example, Microsoft Access, Word, Excel).
 A. I have used appropriate software to access and retrieve data, files, or other information to respond to routine inquiries or to disseminate general information.
 B. I have used appropriate software to create, print, and send data, files, or other information in order to compile information, maintain logs, or prepare basic reports.
 C. I have used appropriate software to create, edit, and manipulate data in order to perform statistical analyses, enter comprehensive reports, or design new procedures.
 D. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
18. Select the choice that best indicates your ability to use geospatial systems and software such as GIS, GPS, ESRI or other digital cartography and geospatial technologies.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic general knowledge of automated systems, but lack experience in using them to obtain data.
 C. I have had experience in using automated systems to obtain data for my own research and analyses.
 D. I have had extensive experience in using automated systems to obtain data for research and analyses. I am frequently asked to advise or train others in the effective use of these systems.
19. Indicate the extent of your experience with GIS peripherals that include scanners, plotters, printers, laminators.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic general knowledge of GIS peripherals but lack experience in using them.
 C. I have had some experience in using GIS peripherals.
 D. I have had extensive experience in using GIS peripherals. I am frequently asked to advise or train others in the effective use of these resources.
20. Indicate the extent of your experience with remote sensing practices such as coordinate systems, aerial photography, videography, geo-referencing, and satellite image processing.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic general knowledge of remote sensing practices but lack experience in applying them.
 C. I have had some experience applying remote sensing practices (for example, georeferencing imagery tiles, performing imagery QA/QC, processing and mosiacing multiple images).
 D. I have had extensive experience applying remote sensing practices. I am frequently asked to advise or train others in the effective use of them.
21. Indicate the extent of your experience in utilizing cartographic principles/knowledge, GIS theory, graphic design, mapping, and geospatial pattern identification.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to and observed others who found it necessary to modify standard cartographic practices or adapt techniques to solve some cartography problems.
 C. I have had some experience in modifying standard cartography practices or adapting techniques to solve some cartography problems.
 D. I have had extensive experience in modifying standard cartography practices and adapting techniques to solve a variety of cartography problems.
22. Indicate the extent to which you have communicated orally with people of a wide range of GIS understanding in order to obtain and provide information.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated orally with others in order to obtain or verify information or to provide routine information.
 C. I have communicated orally with supervisors, managers, or office personnel within my organizational structure to notify them of decisions, problems, or further actions needed.
 D. I have given short oral presentations or briefings outside of my organizational structure to convey information on important trends or compliance issues.
 E. I have led briefings or taught courses on highly technical or complex material to audiences such as introductory and/or advanced coursework related to GIS and GPS technologies and theory.
23. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing, such as preparing briefs, correspondence, reports, charts, and hardcopy/softcopy presentation materials.
 A. I have written responses to requests for information.
 B. I have written portions of reports, briefings, information papers, and other documents.
 C. I have independently composed written reports, briefings, information papers, and other complete documents.
 D. I have reviewed and edited reports, documents, records, or other materials to verify completeness, correctness, consistency, compliance, or authenticity, or I have written testimony that presented complex information.
 E. I have reviewed, edited, and approved the written reports, procedures, briefings, or information papers of others, or I have written new policies, procedures, or practices.
 F. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
24. Indicate the extent to which you have established and maintained effective working relationships with individuals within and outside of your organization.
 A. I have had routine, limited interaction with individuals within and outside of my organization, such as receiving information from my supervisor or answering straightforward questions or uncomplicated requests for information.
 B. I have interacted with others within and outside of my organization to resolve day-to-day issues and ensure the completion of group projects. I have assisted external customers in clarifying their needs or resolving routine problems.
 C. I have worked on projects that have involved moderately complex interaction with team members or external customers. I have assisted external customers in defining their needs or resolving moderately complex problems.
 D. I have worked on projects that have involved extensive interaction with team members or external customers in complex situations. I have served as a team leader, or have been responsible for negotiating resolutions to group issues.
 E. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected