Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Special Agent)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
USDA-OIG-MP-12794554-25-FB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge) AND you either:
• retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more; OR 
• rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) since 1991 or later to include disability determinations from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 percent or more. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty?

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center Military Spouses 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a Federal employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
9.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who is claiming eligibility under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act and: 

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,

• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a single break in service of two or more years; and,
• performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; and,

• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and whose most recent separation was for reasons other than misconduct or performance.
  
Note: Service must be in the competitive service and have been at a successful level of performance or better.  Part-time and intermittent service will be credited only for time actually worked.  Non-pay status (such as LWOP) is credited for up to six months in a calendar year; anything beyond six months is not credited.  Applicants are responsible for providing sufficient information/documentation to determine if the 24 month criteria is met.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

 For more information, review  Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.
 
-OR-
 
 Are you a current:

• Postal Career Service Employee;

• Postal Rate Commission Employee;

• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,

• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a Peace Corps Volunteer or AmeriCorps VISTA Alumni who completed your service within the past 12 months; OR,

Are you a Peace Corps Volunteer or AmeriCorps VISTA Alumni who completed your service within the past 36 months AND you are requesting an extension of your non-competitive appointment eligibility due to your military service; study at a recognized institution of higher learning; or involvement in another activity, which the hiring agency may view warrants extension?  OR,

 Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who completed at least 36 months of continuous service without a break in service of 3 days or more AND has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12.
Do you have a severe intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14.
Are you a former Federal career or career-conditional employee AND

• has reinstatement eligibility; AND 
• has not held a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15.
Are you a former Federal career or career-conditional employee AND  

• has reinstatement eligibility; AND 
• has held a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16.
Are you:

• a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• eligible for veterans' preference?

Note: If you are currently on active duty you may be considered under the two provisions above provided you submit  a certification of expected discharge or release from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is submitted. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Minneapolis, MN
 B. Cleveland, OH
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Appraisal must be included in Applicant's submission. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 A. I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 B. I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 C. I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 D. Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please respond to the following questions. Any experience claimed in response to the questions MUST be supported by information in your resume. This information must be SPECIFIC, (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide supporting documentation may result in an ineligible rating.
1. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your education and experience in relation to the minimum qualifications requirement for the Criminal Investigator, GS-1811-13 position. SELECT ONLY ONE RESPONSE. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of GS-12 or equivalent in the private sector performing such duties as independently conducting a full range of criminal investigative functions on assigned cases from planning and conducting fact-finding to reporting the results of investigations; independently performing or leading undercover and surveillance work; conducting investigative interviews; and analyzing investigative facts to arrive at sound conclusions. This experience includes the preparation of comprehensive administrative and technical reports in order to present complex and conflicting findings in a clear, logical, impartial, comprehensive, and concise manner. In addition, I have experience conducting liaison activities with other investigative agencies, including Federal, State, and local agencies, representing the interests of my agency and impacted stakeholders, and developing new approaches to performing investigative functions, including in response to identified weaknesses and vulnerabilities in on-going operations.
 B. I do not possess the required specialized experience as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. The selectee will be required to meet the initial agency suitability determination (i.e. local police checks, review of past employment data, review of Query National information Center report, results of special agency check, etc.) before a final job offer can be made. Are you able to pass such an initial agency suitability determination?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is subject to the provisions of the Domestic Violence Offender Gun Ban commonly referred to as the Lautenberg Amendment. This act bans individuals convicted of misdemeanor domestic violence and certain others from possession or access to firearms or ammunition. (False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment per 18 U.S.C. Section 1001). Are you willing and able to obtain and maintain eligibility for this position based on the provisions of the Lautenberg Amendment?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires you to have a Top Secret Clearance based on the completion of a favorable Single Scope Background Investigation. Do you possess, or are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a Top Secret clearance?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires you to obtain and maintain a valid motor vehicle operator's license. Do you possess, or are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a valid motor vehicle operator's license?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires you to qualify with your assigned duty firearm(s) on a quarterly basis. Are you willing and able to qualify with your assigned duty firearm(s) on a quarterly basis?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position is subject to pre-employment and periodic random drug testing. Are you willing to submit to pre-employment and periodic random drug testing?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. This position requires travel to other duty locations approximately up to 75% of the time. Are you able to travel up to 75% of the time?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. This position will require you to obtain and use a government-issued charge card for business-related travel at government expense. Are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a government-issued charge card for business-related travel?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. This position may require you to obtain and use a government-issued purchase charge card for non-travel business-related expenditures. Are you able to obtain and maintain for the duration or employment, a government-issued purchase charge card for non-travel business-related expenditures?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. From the choices below, select the law enforcement activities you have conducted (select all that apply):
 A. Physical and Electronic surveillance.
 B. Participation in tactical or enforcement operations (“raids”).
 C. Search for physical evidence, clues, records and documents.
 D. Assist in conducting seizures of contraband, equipment, and vehicles.
 E. Assist in securing and serving warrants.
 F. Make arrests.
 G. Summarize and convey appropriate factual inferences and conclusions from diverse sources of information.
 H. Develop evidence for orderly presentation to the U.S. Attorney or other legal officers.
 I. Participate in undercover operations.
 J. None of the above.
12. From the choices below, select the statements that describe your knowledge and skills as a criminal investigator (select all that apply):
 A. I have extensive knowledge of investigative policies and procedures.
 B. I have participated in inspections of investigative offices.
 C. I have experience developing and maintaining investigative policies and procedures.
 D. I have experience providing advice and assistance to staff in utilizing appropriate investigative techniques and applying recognized investigative standards.
 E. I have experience in planning and coordinating the work of an organization or major organizational segment, providing expert advice, leadership and training in carrying out investigative and support activities.
 F. I have experience analyzing legislation/regulations and assessing their impact on investigations program operations and administration and developing appropriate policies and procedures.
 G. I have no experience in performing this task.
13. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your knowledge of law enforcement/criminal justice theories, techniques, procedures, and practices.
 A. I have conducted and coordinated all facets of a criminal financial fraud investigation involving multi-jurisdictional and multi-defendant cases or participated in major criminal investigations involving violations of Title 18 of the United States Code.
 B. I have applied law enforcement techniques and procedures by serving as a Special Agent in varied undercover operations, surveillance, obtaining search warrants, and/or conducting searches.
 C. I have obtained search and seizure records at the federal, state, or local levels, made arrests of violators, and provided testimony as a witness before grand juries.
 D. None of the above.
14. From the choices below, select the statements that describe your experience providing guidance on policies, techniques, and procedures in a law enforcement environment (select all that apply):
 A. I have experience coordinating the investigative efforts of several law enforcement agencies (local, state, and/or federal) in several different areas of the country.
 B. I have experience leading discussions regarding policy and investigative techniques in group settings.
 C. I have experience in identifying, developing, and implementing new policies and procedures.
 D. I have experience providing guidance to law enforcement officers regarding policy, techniques, and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
15. From the choices below, select the types of activities that apply to your knowledge and experience dealing with various of systems and business practices (select all that apply):
 A. Quarterly, semiannual and fiscal year statistics.
 B. Evidence inventory and control.
 C. US Courts PACER system.
 D. National Criminal Information Center databases.
 E. Treasury Enforcement Communication System.
 F. National Law Enforcement Telecommunication system.
 G. FinCEN Portal.
 H. Other agency specific database systems designed to manage investigative and/or program related data.
 I. None of the above.
16. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your knowledge of the United States Department of Agriculture, its various component agencies, and the missions of those agencies.
 A. I have not had education or training related to USDA or USDA agencies.
 B. I have had education or training regarding the USDA and its agencies but have not yet worked in the USDA or with USDA agencies.
 C. I have general knowledge of USDA agencies acquired through infrequent contact with USDA.
 D. I have general and specific knowledge of USDA, its agencies, and the roles and relationships within, acquired through consistent contact and joint projects with various USDA entities.
 E. I have general and specific knowledge of USDA, its agencies, and the roles and relationships within. I acquired this knowledge through consistent contact and joint projects with various USDA entities, including working with USDA OIG investigative teams and/or personnel.
17. From the choices below, select the liaison activities you have conducted (select all that apply):
 A. Presented fraud awareness briefings.
 B. Performed as a formal liaison to another agency.
 C. Led joint cases with multiple agencies.
 D. Responded to and/or gathered information for congressional inquiries.
 E. Responded to and/or disseminate Freedom of Information Act inquiries.
 F. Participated as a full time or part time member of a permanent federal task force.
 G. Completed headquarters special projects.
 H. Researched updates to ongoing cases and provided updates to senior officials.
 I. Referred lead information and allegations to the appropriate investigative body.
 J. None of the above.
18. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your skill in establishing and maintaining effective working relationships outside of your organizational component or subcomponent.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, solved non-routine problems, and provided responses to the appropriate persons/offices.
 C. I have maintained relationships with members of other work units within my organization, assessed their needs, and provided moderately complex information to them. I have resolved fairly complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with groups external to my organization, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
19. From the choices below, select the activities you have participated in to establish working relationships with counterpart law enforcement officers and staff (select all that apply):
 A. Professional development conferences.
 B. Meetings.
 C. Training courses to identify state-of-the-art technical and investigation strategies.
 D. Joint investigations, task forces, or similar working groups.
 E. Inter- and Intra-agency focus groups.
 F. None of the above.
20. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your experience as a team leader coordinating the work of other team members based on priorities, requirements of the task, and capabilities of the members.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some periodic experience in assigning work as a team lead or an acting supervisor.
 C. I have had on-going experience as an acting supervisor of a large program/project in assigning work to others and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of program/project members.
 D. I have experience as a supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate employees.
21. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience leading multi-agency investigative teams (select all that apply):
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted or directed an investigation that involved other federal and/or state investigative agencies.
 C. I have developed and/or modified methods to ensure thorough and accurate investigations.
 D. I have provided expert input to U.S. Attorneys on investigation background, evidence, and findings.
 E. I have developed reports of findings that include recommendations for improvements to program operations.
22. From the choices below, select the interpersonal communication duties you have performed as a regular part of your current job (select all that apply):
 A. Briefed Assistant US Attorneys on criminal investigative activities in support of Title 18 investigations.
 B. Facilitated coordination of efforts between various federal law enforcement investigative agencies.
 C. Briefed first-line and/or higher-level supervisors on the status of open investigations.
 D. Briefed partner agency representatives concerning the status of joint investigations.
 E. None of the above.
23. From the choices below, identify the types of audiences with which you have communicated complex technical information (select all that apply):
 A. Technical surveillance experts, contractors, and professional organizations.
 B. Senior management officials (agency directors or higher).
 C. Congressional staff.
 D. Other sworn law enforcement personnel.
 E. Academia, nonprofit, and government organizations.
 F. Private industry and the general public.
 G. None of the above.
24. From the choices below, indicate the types of interpersonal communication duties you have performed as a regular part of your job (select all that apply):
 A. Briefed management and/or customers on policy changes.
 B. Defended recommendations on controversial issues.
 C. Facilitated coordination of efforts between organizational entities.
 D. Acted as technical representative.
 E. Served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 F. Regularly consulted by others on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 G. None of the above.
25. From the choices below, select the following types of affidavits you have written and submitted, sworn, and had approved, that resulted in arrests, seizures, indictments, or penalties (select all that apply):
 A. Search warrant affidavits.
 B. Seizure warrants affidavits.
 C. Criminal complaint affidavits.
 D. Arrest warrant affidavits.
 E. None of the above.
26. From the choices below, select those that you have personally drafted or generated (select all that apply):
 A. Interview write-up or memorandum.
 B. Prosecutorial summary for release such as a press release.
 C. Affidavit in support of criminal complaint, arrest warrant, or search warrant.
 D. Article for trade publication or white paper.
 E. Tactical, operation, or investigative plan.
 F. Memorandums for record or similar work papers.
 G. None of the above.
27. From the choices below, select those that you have personally drafted or generated (select all that apply):
 A. Reports of Investigation.
 B. Investigative work plans.
 C. Administrative reports to management.
 D. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest or search warrant operations.
 E. Responses to congressional or other interagency inquiries.
 F. Applications for approval for consensual monitoring.
 G. Applications for administrative or IG subpoenas.
 H. None of the above.
28. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected