Position Title
Health Technician (Pedorthist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12801629-25-BH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
4. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 A. Yes
 B. No
If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held, dated within the last year.

All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.

Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Credential: You must meet ONE of the requirements below.
Candidates must be board certified in pedorthics by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC).
Credentialed in pedorthics by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).
Exception for Non-Credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist).
Non-credentialed individuals who have successfully completed a Board for Certification in Pedorthics (BCP), Commission on Accreditation of Pedorthic Education (CAPE), National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education (NCOPE), Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or American Board for Certification of Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC) approved pedorthic certificate program (see Pedorthist Programs) and otherwise meet ABC's eligibility requirements for certification (see Pedorthist Candidate Guide) may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Aid (Pedorthist) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B).
Non-credentialed individuals shall only provide care under the clinical oversight of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist, or orthotist/prosthetist at or above the full performance level.
Non-credentialed individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.



Do you meet the credential requirement and/or agree to the conditions of employment if you are not certified yet, as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Health Technician (Pedorthist), GS-04.
Experience. Six months of experience demonstrating knowledge, skills and abilities associated with pedorthic practice equivalent to the next lower grade.
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of patient related psychology, for example age-related competency, patient, and caregiver stressors.
Knowledge of foundational sciences related to development of pedorthic treatment, for example anatomy, biomechanics, and pathology.
Knowledge of materials science commonly used in fabrication, for example adhesives, plastics, composites, metals, and leather.
Knowledge of regulations and procedures to ensure patient privacy.
Ability to assign Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding to pedorthic devices.

Do you meet the GS-4 grade requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Health Technician (Pedorthist), GS-05.
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in conducting patient assessments.
Skill in developing simple pedorthic devices (includes assessment, measurement, selection, and fitting).
Ability to consult with providers and allied health colleagues regarding treatment.
Ability to assess device to ensure structural soundness and compliance with prescription and fit.
Do you meet the GS-5 grade requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Health Technician (Pedorthist), GS-06.
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in developing a follow up treatment plan for complex pedorthic device types.
Ability to process paperwork for pedorthic devices being produced and fitted by vendor.
Ability to place administrative orders with procurement staff for treatment modalities.
Ability to assess device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
Ability to process consults/orders.
Do you meet the GS-6 grade requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Health Technician (Pedorthist), GS-07.
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in designing advanced pedorthic devices.
Skill in assessing device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
Skill in written communication.
Skill in oral communication.
Skill in fabrication of all pedorthic device types.
Skill in designing innovative pedorthic devices to include new and emerging technology.
Do you meet the GS-7 grade requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience in your resume may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA in your application package.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected