Position Title
Food and Beverage Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-1029 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 3, 2025 to Monday, November 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the Food and Beverage Director position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the option that best describes your qualifications. 

 I possess a 2-year degree in Business, Culinary Arts, or a closely related field
 I have at least 5 years of experience in high volume food service operation with increasing levels of responsibility
 I have none of the above


2.
Select the option that best describes your experience.
 I have overseen multiple food and beverage operations at the district or regional manager level (DOD Food and Beverage)
 I have overseen multiple food and beverage operations at the district or regional manager level (private sector)
 I have overseen an individual restaurant or facility (Private sector or DOD)
 None of the above


3.
Select the option that best describes your experience.
 I have 5 or more years of experience overseeing multiple management level positions
 I have 3-5 years of experience overseeing multiple management level positions
 I have 1-3 years of experience overseeing multiple management level positions
 None of the above


4.
Select the option that best describes your experience.
 I have 5 or more years of knowledge and experience managing restaurant policies, regulations, administrative practices and procedures.
 I have 3-5 years of knowledge and experience managing restaurant policies, regulations, administrative practices and procedures.
 I have 1-3 years of knowledge and experience managing restaurant policies, regulations, administrative practices and procedures.
 I have no knowledge and experience managing restaurant policies, regulations, administrative practices and procedures.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙